website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-16-0-18-0-upgrade-guide.md, before:

---
date: "2021-11-16"
title: "0.18 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.18.0"
authors: ["tobz"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.18.0 release includes four **breaking changes**:

1. [`batch.max_size` no longer valid for sinks](#batch-max-size)
1. [`request.in_flight_limit` no longer valid for sources and sinks](#request-in-flight-limit)
1. [`http_client_responses_total` now labels status with only numeric code](#http_client_responses_total)
1. [`LOG` environment variable renamed to `VECTOR_LOG`](#VECTOR_LOG)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### `batch.max_size` no longer valid for sinks {#batch-max-size}

We've finally removed the `batch.max_size` parameter from sinks that support batching.  In the past,
this field allowed settings the maximum batch size in a general way, being interpreted by the sink
to mean either bytes or events.  As we add more and more sinks, some which support the notion of
batches being limited by both bytes and events, we've removed `max_size` as a way to ensure every
configuration is clear as to what is being limited rather than forcing users to dig into the
documentation to understand how the sink will interpret `max_size`.

If you're currently setting this, you will need to switch to either `batch.max_bytes` or
`batch.max_events`.  If you're trying to limit the size of the batch, in terms of bytes, you should
use `batch.max_bytes`.  Otherwise, if you're trying to limit the size of the batch in terms of
events, you should use `batch.max_events`.

### `request.in_flight_limit` no longer valid for sources and sinks {#request-in-flight-limit}

Similarly to `batch.max_size`, we've had support for adjusting the concurrency of sources and sinks
via `request.concurrency` for some time now.  This is the preferred field to set, and is referenced
in all of our documentation.

`request.concurrency` and `request.in_flight_limit` were both treated the same internally, so simply
renaming any instances of `request.in_flight_limit` in your configurations to `request.concurrency`
is enough to address this change.

### `http_client_responses_total` now labels status with only numeric code {#http_client_responses_total}

The `http_client_responses_total` internal metric has a `status` label
indicating the HTTP status code of the response. Previously, this label included
the canonical reason, for example the `OK` in `200 OK`; however, this was an
oversight. It was meant to only include the numeric value, `200`. With this
release, the `status` label for this metric only includes the code and not the
canonical reason.

Having only the numeric value makes it easier to group status codes (for example
all `2xx` level status codes) in downstream metrics systems.

### `LOG` environment variable renamed to `VECTOR_LOG` {#VECTOR_LOG}

The `LOG` environment variable we have used to set Vector's logging level has been renamed to instead
be `VECTOR_LOG`. This change makes logging configuration more in-line with Vector's other environment
variable based options, and isolates Vector from being affected by other generic environment variables.

When upgrading, simply rename your environment variable from `LOG` to `VECTOR_LOG`.

Commit message:

enhancement(datadog_metrics sink): rewrite to the new model + add sketch support (#9178)
* enhancement(datadog_metrics sink): massive rewrite of the sink

some of the included changes:
- support for aggregated summaries (quantiles as discrete series)
- support for aggregated histograms (via conversion to sketches)
- native sketch support in Vector! and for sending to DD!
- sink rewritten in the "new" style
- many other core changes to support the work: metric-specific sink builder extension methods, incremental request builder, etc

website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-16-0-18-0-upgrade-guide.md, after:

---
date: "2021-11-16"
title: "0.18 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.18.0"
authors: ["tobz"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.18.0 release includes five **breaking changes**:

1. [`batch.max_size` no longer valid for sinks](#batch-max-size)
1. [`request.in_flight_limit` no longer valid for sources and sinks](#request-in-flight-limit)
1. [`http_client_responses_total` now labels status with only numeric code](#http_client_responses_total)
1. [`LOG` environment variable renamed to `VECTOR_LOG`](#VECTOR_LOG)
1. [Field name change for aggregated summaries in `metric_to_log` transform](#agg_summary_metric_to_log)
1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Datadog metrics sink: `host` and `namespace`](#dd_metrics_sink_deprecated_fields)


We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### `batch.max_size` no longer valid for sinks {#batch-max-size}

We've finally removed the `batch.max_size` parameter from sinks that support batching.  In the past,
this field allowed settings the maximum batch size in a general way, being interpreted by the sink
to mean either bytes or events.  As we add more and more sinks, some which support the notion of
batches being limited by both bytes and events, we've removed `max_size` as a way to ensure every
configuration is clear as to what is being limited rather than forcing users to dig into the
documentation to understand how the sink will interpret `max_size`.

If you're currently setting this, you will need to switch to either `batch.max_bytes` or
`batch.max_events`.  If you're trying to limit the size of the batch, in terms of bytes, you should
use `batch.max_bytes`.  Otherwise, if you're trying to limit the size of the batch in terms of
events, you should use `batch.max_events`.

### `request.in_flight_limit` no longer valid for sources and sinks {#request-in-flight-limit}

Similarly to `batch.max_size`, we've had support for adjusting the concurrency of sources and sinks
via `request.concurrency` for some time now.  This is the preferred field to set, and is referenced
in all of our documentation.

`request.concurrency` and `request.in_flight_limit` were both treated the same internally, so simply
renaming any instances of `request.in_flight_limit` in your configurations to `request.concurrency`
is enough to address this change.

### `http_client_responses_total` now labels status with only numeric code {#http_client_responses_total}

The `http_client_responses_total` internal metric has a `status` label
indicating the HTTP status code of the response. Previously, this label included
the canonical reason, for example the `OK` in `200 OK`; however, this was an
oversight. It was meant to only include the numeric value, `200`. With this
release, the `status` label for this metric only includes the code and not the
canonical reason.

Having only the numeric value makes it easier to group status codes (for example
all `2xx` level status codes) in downstream metrics systems.

### `LOG` environment variable renamed to `VECTOR_LOG` {#VECTOR_LOG}

The `LOG` environment variable we have used to set Vector's logging level has been renamed to instead
be `VECTOR_LOG`. This change makes logging configuration more in-line with Vector's other environment
variable based options, and isolates Vector from being affected by other generic environment variables.

When upgrading, simply rename your environment variable from `LOG` to `VECTOR_LOG`.

### Field name change for aggregated summaries in `metric_to_log` transform {#agg_summary_metric_to_log}

We've updated the rendered fields for "aggregated summaries" when emitted by the `metric_to_log`
transform to better align with the actual data itself.  Instead of `upper_limit`, the field which
holds the quantile is now called `q`, which is a common shorthand for "quantile".

`upper_limit` is a holdover from the initial implementation of metrics support in Vector and applies
to aggregated histograms, but not to aggregated summaries.

### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Datadog metrics sink: `host` and `namespace` {#dd_metrics_sink_deprecated_fields}

As part of our continued efforts to keep the configuration and documentation for Vector as clean as
possible, we're removing two deprecated configuration fields from the Datadog Metrics sink: `host`
and `namespace`.

It's finally time to remove the cruft!  You can migrate your configuration simply by switching to
`endpoint` and `default_namespace` instead.
