website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-16-new-pipeline.md, before:

---
date: "2021-11-16"
title: "Pipelines is now available on Vector"
description: "A guide for using the new pipelines functionality"
authors: ["barieom"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---

# Pipelines is now available on Vector

We're excited to announce a new release that introduces the concept of Pipelines to Vector.

Vector's topology is based on a [directed acylclic graph], enabling users to create a complex pipelines and powerful models that power advanced use cases, illustrated by the example diagram below:
![DAG example](/img/vector-DAG-example.png)

However, this is in contrast to many leading observability pipeline offerings — such as [Datadog's LWL Pipelines][] — by defining a linear set of transforms, in which the first transform feeds into the second, then the third, in sequential manner. Diagram below highlights the different flow compared to the DAG model:
![New pipeline example](/img/new-pipeline-example.png)

To align with industry comparable workflows, Vector now offers a linear transforms, reducing complexity. 

To illustrate this better, let's assume we have a pipeline with three stages - source, transforms, then sink. The `transforms` directory has the following structure:

```
/transforms/
└───processing/
│   └───logs/   
│       │   sudo.toml
│       │   aws_s3_access_logs.toml
│   
│   processing.toml
│   
```

The configuration files for `sudo.toml` and `aws_s3_access_logs.toml` respectively are below:

```toml
name = "Sudo"
filter.type = "datadog_search"
filter.condition = "source:s3"

[[transforms]]
type = "remap"
source = '''
. |= parse_grok(
    value: .message,
    patterns: ["sudo.default", "%{_sudo_user} : %{_sudo_tty}( %{_sudo_pwd})? %{_sudo_run_as_user}( %{_sudo_group})?( %{_sudo_tsid})?( %{_sudo_env})? (%{_sudo_command})?; (%{_sudo_lang} )?(%{_sudo_lc_type} )?.*"],
    aliases: {
        _sudo_user: "%{notSpace:system.user}",
        _sudo_tty: "TTY=%{notSpace:system.tty} ;",
        _sudo_pwd: "PWD=%{notSpace:system.pwd} ;",
        _sudo_run_as_user: "USER=%{notSpace:system.run_as_user} ;",
        _sudo_group: "GROUP=%{notSpace:system.run_as_group} ;",
        _sudo_tsid: "TSID=%{notSpace:system.tsid} ;",
        _sudo_env: "ENV=%{data:system.env}",
        _sudo_command: "COMMAND=%{data:system.cmd}",
        _sudo_lang: "LANG=%{notSpace:system.lang}",
        _sudo_lc_type: "LC_CTYPE=%{notSpace:system.lc_type}"
    }
)
'''
```

``` toml
name = "AWS S3 access logs"
filter.type = "datadog_search"
filter.condition = "source:s3"

[[transforms]]
type = "remap"
source = '''
# Processor 1: Grok Parser: Parsing S3 Access Logs
. |= parse_grok(
    .message,
    patterns: [
        ...
    ]
    aliases: {
        ...
    }
)

# Processor 2: User-Agent Parser
.http.useragent_details |= parse_user_agent(.http.useragent)

# Processor 3: Url Parser
.http.url_details |= parse_user_agent(.http.url)

# Processor 4: Date Remapper: Define date_access as the official timestamp of the log
schema_set_timestamp(.date_access)

# Processor 5: Category Processor: Categorize status code
.http.status_category = switch http.status_code {
when 200...299:
    "OK"
when 300...399:
    "notice"
when 400...499:
    "warning"
}

# Processor 6: Status Remapper: Set the log status based on the status code value
schema_set_status(.http.status_category)
'''
```

And in the processing.toml file, the following configuration is required to set the order of the processors:

``` toml
type = "pipelines"
inputs = ["datadog_agent", "syslog"]
mode = "linear"

logs.order = [
    "aws_s3_access_logs",
    "sudo"
]
```


For our next steps, we'll be looking to add `filtering` functionality, which will enable events to be passed to the next processor if a condition is not. In the meantime, if you any feedback for us, let us know on our [Discord chat][] or on [Twitter][]!


[Datadog's LWL Pipelines]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/logging-without-limits/
[directed acyclic graph]: /docs/about/under-the-hood/architecture/pipeline-model/
[Discord chat]: https://discord.com/invite/dX3bdkF
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/vectordotdev

Commit message:

tweaked the article to talk more about collaboration

website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-16-new-pipeline.md, after:

---
date: "2021-11-16"
title: "Pipelines is now available on Vector"
description: "New pipelines now enables further collaboration"
authors: ["barieom"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---


We're excited to announce a new release that introduces the concept of Pipelines to Vector.

Vector's topology is based on a [directed acylclic graph], enabling users to create a complex pipelines and powerful models that power advanced use cases, illustrated by the example diagram below:
![DAG example](/img/vector-DAG-example.png)

However, this is in contrast to many leading observability pipeline offerings — such as [Datadog's LWL Pipelines][] — by defining a linear set of transforms, in which the first transform feeds into the second, then the third, in sequential manner. Diagram below highlights the different flow compared to the DAG model:
![New pipeline example](/img/new-pipeline-example.png)

With the new Vector pipelines, linear transforms is now supported on Vector, reducing complexity and, more importantly, promoting collaboration across teams. Pipelines introduces a collaboration point in your pipeline so that each person can operate in their own pipelines without having to dive into a single config file containing thousands of lines of configurations. Because linear pipelines decouples observability data from its source, transformation, and sink stages, developers or teams can focus on specific processors they are responsible for.

To illustrate this better, let's assume we have a pipeline with three stages - source, transforms, then sink. The `transforms` directory has the following structure:

```
/transforms/
└───processing/
│    │   sudo.toml
│    │   aws_s3_access_logs.toml
│   
│   processing.toml
│   
```

The configuration files for `sudo.toml` and `aws_s3_access_logs.toml` respectively are below:

```toml
name = "Sudo"
filter.type = "datadog_search"
filter.condition = "source:s3"

[[transforms]]
type = "remap"
source = '''
. |= parse_grok(
    value: .message,
    patterns: ["sudo.default", "%{_sudo_user} : %{_sudo_tty}( %{_sudo_pwd})? %{_sudo_run_as_user}( %{_sudo_group})?( %{_sudo_tsid})?( %{_sudo_env})? (%{_sudo_command})?; (%{_sudo_lang} )?(%{_sudo_lc_type} )?.*"],
    aliases: {
        _sudo_user: "%{notSpace:system.user}",
        _sudo_tty: "TTY=%{notSpace:system.tty} ;",
        _sudo_pwd: "PWD=%{notSpace:system.pwd} ;",
        _sudo_run_as_user: "USER=%{notSpace:system.run_as_user} ;",
        _sudo_group: "GROUP=%{notSpace:system.run_as_group} ;",
        _sudo_tsid: "TSID=%{notSpace:system.tsid} ;",
        _sudo_env: "ENV=%{data:system.env}",
        _sudo_command: "COMMAND=%{data:system.cmd}",
        _sudo_lang: "LANG=%{notSpace:system.lang}",
        _sudo_lc_type: "LC_CTYPE=%{notSpace:system.lc_type}"
    }
)
'''
```

``` toml
name = "AWS S3 access logs"
filter.type = "datadog_search"
filter.condition = "source:s3"

[[transforms]]
type = "remap"
source = '''
# Processor 1: Grok Parser: Parsing S3 Access Logs
. |= parse_grok(
    .message,
    patterns: [
        ...
    ]
    aliases: {
        ...
    }
)

# Processor 2: User-Agent Parser
.http.useragent_details |= parse_user_agent(.http.useragent)

# Processor 3: Url Parser
.http.url_details |= parse_user_agent(.http.url)

# Processor 4: Date Remapper: Define date_access as the official timestamp of the log
schema_set_timestamp(.date_access)

# Processor 5: Category Processor: Categorize status code
.http.status_category = switch http.status_code {
when 200...299:
    "OK"
when 300...399:
    "notice"
when 400...499:
    "warning"
}

# Processor 6: Status Remapper: Set the log status based on the status code value
schema_set_status(.http.status_category)
'''
```

And in the processing.toml file, the following configuration is required to set the order of the processors:

``` toml
type = "pipelines"
inputs = ["datadog_agent", "syslog"]
mode = "linear"

.order = [
    "aws_s3_access_logs",
    "sudo"
]
```


For our next steps, we'll be looking to add `filtering` functionality, which will enable events to be passed to the next processor if a condition is not. In the meantime, if you any feedback for us, let us know on our [Discord chat][] or on [Twitter][]!


[Datadog's LWL Pipelines]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/logging-without-limits/
[directed acyclic graph]: /docs/about/under-the-hood/architecture/pipeline-model/
[Discord chat]: https://discord.com/invite/dX3bdkF
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/vectordotdev
