---
date: "2021-12-28"
title: "0.19 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.19.0"
authors: ["001wwang"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.19.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.19.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host`](#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks](#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update)
1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink](#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink](#vector-version)

And **deprecations**:

1. [Splunk HEC sinks rename `token` to `default_token`](#splunk-hec-token)

And **behavioral changes**:

1. [Splunk HEC sinks now include a channel header in requests](#splunk-hec-channel-header)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking changes

#### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host` {#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields}

We've removed a long deprecated configuration field from the Splunk HEC Logs
sink: `host`.

You can migrate your configuration by switching to `endpoint` instead.

```diff
 [sinks.splunk]
   type = "splunk_hec_logs"
-  host = "http://splunk-endpoint"
+  endpoint = "http://splunk-endpoint"
   ...
```

#### Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks {#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update}

As part of moving towards more consistent Vector component instrumentation,
we've updated the following internal metrics in the Splunk HEC sinks. For any
removed metric, we've added an equivalent alternative.

- Removed `encode_errors_total`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = encode_failed`.
- Removed `processing_errors_total` with tag `error_type = invalid_metric_kind`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = invalid_metric`.
- Removed `processed_bytes_total`
  - Instead, use `component_received_event_bytes_total` and `component_sent_event_bytes_total`.
- Added `components_discarded_events_total`
  - Previously, no metric was emitted when an encoding error occurred and an
    event was dropped.

#### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink {#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields}

| Deprecated Field   | New Field             |
| -----------        | -----------           |
| `mode = normal`    | `mode = bulk`         |
| `host`             | `endpoint`            |
| `bulk_action`      | `bulk.action`         |
| `index`            | `bulk.index`          |
| `headers`          | `request.headers`     |

#### Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink {#vector-version}

In the v0.16.0 release, we have [introduced a new `v2` version of the protocol][vector-v2-announcement] that the
`vector` source and sink use to communicate. This new protocol offers a number of advantages over our initial `v1`
protocol implementation including load balancing and better back-pressure handling.

Up until this release, the `vector` source and sink continued defaulting to the `v1` protocol for compatibility. In this
release, we remove this default and require you to specify the `version` field in the `vector` source and sink
configuration. The intent of this change is to prompt users to migrate.

If you do not specify a version number, you will see an error like:

```text
Configuration error. error=data did not match any variant of untagged enum VectorConfig for key `sinks.my_vector_sink` at line 8 column 1
```

To continue using the `v1` protocol, simply add `version = "1"` to your configuration like:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"
```

However, we recommend that you transition to the `v2` protocol by setting `version = "2"`:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"
```

There are some configuration options that are no longer valid with version 2 of
the source and sink:

- `vector` source: `keepalive` and `receive_buffer_bytes`
- `vector` sink: `keepalive` and `send_buffer_bytes`

As these were specific to the TCP-based version 1 of the protocol.

See the [announcement post][vector-v2-announcement] for a guide on how to transition without downtime.

In a subsequent release we will begin defaulting to the `v2` protocol and eventually remove support for the `v1`
protocol.


[vector-v2-announcement]: /highlights/2021-08-24-vector-source-sink

### Deprecations

#### Splunk HEC sinks rename `token` to `default_token` {#splunk-hec-token}

The `token` configuration option on the `splunk_hec_logs` and
`splunk_hec_metrics` sink has been deprecated in-lieu of the new `default_token`
option which was added as part of support for Splunk HEC token pass-through.

You can migrate your configuration by renaming `token` to  `default_token`:

```diff
 [sinks.splunk]
   type = "splunk_hec_logs"
   endpoint = "http://splunk-endpoint"
-  token = "MY-TOKEN"
+  default_token = "MY-TOKEN"
   ...
```

### Behavioral Changes

#### Splunk HEC sinks now include a channel header in requests {#splunk-hec-channel-header}

As part of our work to support Splunk HEC indexer acknowledgements, `splunk_hec`
sinks will generate a random UUID to use as the `X-Splunk-Request-Channel`
header value. Splunk accepts this header regardless of whether indexer
acknowledgements is enabled, so the `splunk_hec` sinks always attach the header.
In other words, disabling indexer acknowledgements for the sink will not disable
this header value. You can read more about channels in the [official Splunk
docs](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.2.4/Data/FormateventsforHTTPEventCollector#Channel_identifier_header).

If your setup involves a `splunk_hec` sink sending into a separate `splunk_hec`
source, you will now see a `splunk_channel` field in events output from the
`splunk_hec` source. This is because `splunk_hec` sources have always parsed and
included channel information from requests in their events. If you want to
remove this field, you can simply drop it with a `remap` transform like follows:

```toml
[transforms.foo]
type = "remap"
inputs = ["bar"] # where bar is the splunk_hec source
source = '''
  del(.splunk_channel)
'''
```
