website/content/en/highlights/2021-12-28-0-19-0-upgrade-guide.md, before:

---
date: "2021-12-28"
title: "0.19 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.19.0"
authors: ["001wwang"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.19.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.19.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host`](#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks](#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update)
1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink: `host`](#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink](#vector-version)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host` {#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields}

We've removed a long deprecated configuration field from the Splunk HEC Logs
sink: `host`.

You can migrate your configuration by switching to `endpoint` instead.

```diff
 [sinks.splunk]
   type = "splunk_hec_logs"
-  host = "http://splunk-endpoint"
+  endpoint = "http://splunk-endpoint"
   ...
```

### Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks {#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update}

As part of moving towards more consistent Vector component instrumentation,
we've updated the following internal metrics in the Splunk HEC sinks. For any
removed metric, we've added an equivalent alternative.

- Removed `encode_errors_total`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = encode_failed`.
- Removed `processing_errors_total` with tag `error_type = invalid_metric_kind`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = invalid_metric`.
- Removed `processed_bytes_total`
  - Instead, use `component_received_event_bytes_total` and `component_sent_event_bytes_total`.
- Added `components_discarded_events_total`
  - Previously, no metric was emitted when an encoding error occurred and an
    event was dropped.

### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink {#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields}

| Deprecated Field   | New Field             |
| -----------        | -----------           |
| `mode = normal`    | `mode = bulk`         |
| `host`             | `endpoint`            |
| `bulk_action`      | `bulk.action`         |
| `index`            | `bulk.index`          |
| `headers`          | `request.headers`     |

### Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink {#vector-version}

In the v0.16.0 release, we have [introduced a new `v2` version of the protocol][vector-v2-announcement] that the
`vector` source and sink use to communicate. This new protocol offers a number of advantages over our initial `v1`
protocol implementation including load balancing and better back-pressure handling.

Up until this release, the `vector` source and sink continued defaulting to the `v1` protocol for compatibility. In this
release, we remove this default and require you to specify the `version` field in the `vector` source and sink
configuration. The intent of this change is to prompt users to migrate.

If you do not specify a version number, you will see an error like:

```text
Configuration error. error=data did not match any variant of untagged enum VectorConfig for key `sinks.my_vector_sink` at line 8 column 1
```

To continue using the `v1` protocol, simply add `version = "1"` to your configuration like:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"
```

However, we recommend that you transition to the `v2` protocol by setting `version = "2"`:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"
```

See the [announcement post][vector-v2-announcement] for a guide on how to transition without downtime.

In a subsequent release we will begin defaulting to the `v2` protocol and eventually remove support for the `v1`
protocol.

[vector-v2-announcement]: /highlights/2021-08-24-vector-source-sink

Commit message:

docs: update 0.19.0 upgrade guide for splunk_hec "default_token"
#10610

website/content/en/highlights/2021-12-28-0-19-0-upgrade-guide.md, after:

---
date: "2021-12-28"
title: "0.19 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.19.0"
authors: ["001wwang"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.19.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.19.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host`](#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks](#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update)
1. [Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink: `host`](#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields)
1. [Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink](#vector-version)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Splunk HEC Logs sink: `host` and `token` {#splunk-hec-logs-sink-deprecated-fields}

We've removed a long deprecated configuration field from the Splunk HEC Logs
sink: `host`. 

Additionally, the `token` field has been renamed to `default_token` in support for passthrough token routing.

You can migrate your configuration by switching to `endpoint` and `token` respecitively.

```diff
 [sinks.splunk]
   type = "splunk_hec_logs"
-  host = "http://splunk-endpoint"
+  endpoint = "http://splunk-endpoint"
   index: "my-spunk-index"
-  token = "my-token"
+  default_token = "my-token"
   ...
```

### Updated internal metrics for the Splunk HEC sinks {#splunk-hec-sinks-metrics-update}

As part of moving towards more consistent Vector component instrumentation,
we've updated the following internal metrics in the Splunk HEC sinks. For any
removed metric, we've added an equivalent alternative.

- Removed `encode_errors_total`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = encode_failed`.
- Removed `processing_errors_total` with tag `error_type = invalid_metric_kind`
  - Instead, use `component_errors_total` with the tag `error_type = invalid_metric`.
- Removed `processed_bytes_total`
  - Instead, use `component_received_event_bytes_total` and `component_sent_event_bytes_total`.
- Added `components_discarded_events_total`
  - Previously, no metric was emitted when an encoding error occurred and an
    event was dropped.

### Removal of deprecated configuration fields for the Elasticsearch sink {#elasticsearch-sink-deprecated-fields}

| Deprecated Field   | New Field             |
| -----------        | -----------           |
| `mode = normal`    | `mode = bulk`         |
| `host`             | `endpoint`            |
| `bulk_action`      | `bulk.action`         |
| `index`            | `bulk.index`          |
| `headers`          | `request.headers`     |

### Removal of default for `version` field for Vector source and sink {#vector-version}

In the v0.16.0 release, we have [introduced a new `v2` version of the protocol][vector-v2-announcement] that the
`vector` source and sink use to communicate. This new protocol offers a number of advantages over our initial `v1`
protocol implementation including load balancing and better back-pressure handling.

Up until this release, the `vector` source and sink continued defaulting to the `v1` protocol for compatibility. In this
release, we remove this default and require you to specify the `version` field in the `vector` source and sink
configuration. The intent of this change is to prompt users to migrate.

If you do not specify a version number, you will see an error like:

```text
Configuration error. error=data did not match any variant of untagged enum VectorConfig for key `sinks.my_vector_sink` at line 8 column 1
```

To continue using the `v1` protocol, simply add `version = "1"` to your configuration like:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "1"
```

However, we recommend that you transition to the `v2` protocol by setting `version = "2"`:

```diff
[sinks.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"

[sources.vector]
  type = "vector"
+ version = "2"
```

See the [announcement post][vector-v2-announcement] for a guide on how to transition without downtime.

In a subsequent release we will begin defaulting to the `v2` protocol and eventually remove support for the `v1`
protocol.

[vector-v2-announcement]: /highlights/2021-08-24-vector-source-sink
