---
date: "2022-06-16"
title: "0.23 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.23.0"
authors: ["akx", "jszwedko", "spencergilbert", "fuchsnj", "pablosichert"]
release: "0.23.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.23.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [The `.deb` package no longer enables and starts the Vector systemd service](#systemd-autostart)
2. [VRL type definition updates](#vrl-type-def)
3. ["remove_empty" option dropped from VRL's `parse_grok` and `parse_groks`](#vrl-parse_grok)
4. [`gcp_pubsub` sink requires setting "encoding" option](#gcp_sink-mandatory-encoding)
5. [`humio_metrics` sink no longer has "encoding" option](#humio_metrics-sink-fixed-encoding)
6. [VRL conditions are now checked for mutations at compile time](#read_only_check)
7. [`syslog` source and VRL's `parse_syslog` structured data fields made consistent](#parse-syslog)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking changes

#### [The `.deb` package no longer enables and starts the Vector systemd service] {#systemd-autostart}

The [official `.deb` package](https://vector.dev/download/)
no longer automatically enables and starts the Vector systemd service.
This is in line with how the RPM package behaves.

To enable and start the service (after configuring it to your requirements),
you can use `systemctl enable --now`:

```shell
systemctl enable --now vector
```

To just start the service without enabling it to run at system startup,

```shell
systemctl start vector
```

#### [VRL type definition updates] {#vrl-type-def}

There were many situations where VRL didn't calculate the correct type
definition. These are now fixed. In some cases this can cause compilation
errors when upgrading if the code relied on the previous behavior.

This affects the following:

- the "merge" operator (`|` or `|=`) on objects that share keys with different types
- if statements
- nullability checking for most expressions (usually related to if statements)
- expressions that contain the `abort` expression
- the `del` function
- closure arguments

#### ["remove_empty" option dropped from VRL's `parse_grok` and `parse_groks`] {#vrl-parse_grok}

The "remove_empty" argument has been dropped from both the `parse_grok` and the
`parse_groks` functions. Previously, these functions would return empty strings
for non-matching pattern names, but now they are not returned. To preserve the
old behavior, you can do something like the following to merge in empty strings
for each unmatched group:

```coffee
parsed = parse_grok!(.message, "%{TIMESTAMP_ISO8601:timestamp} %{LOGLEVEL:level} %{GREEDYDATA:message}")
expected = { "timestamp": "", "level": "", "message": ""}
parsed = merge(expected, parsed)
```

#### [`gcp_pubsub` sink requires setting "encoding" option] {#gcp_sink-mandatory-encoding}

The `gcp_pubsub` sink now supports a variety of codecs. To encode your logs as JSON before
publishing them to Cloud Pub/Sub, add the following encoding option

```toml
encoding.codec = "json"
```

to the config of your `gcp_pubsub` sink.

#### [`humio_metrics` sink no longer has "encoding" option] {#humio_metrics-sink-fixed-encoding}

The `humio_metrics` sink configuration no longer expects an "encoding" option.
If you previously used the encoding option

```toml
encoding.codec = "json"
```

you need to remove the line from your `humio_metrics` config. Metrics are now
always sent to Humio using the JSON format.

#### [VRL conditions are now checked for mutations at compile time] {#read_only_check}

VRL conditions, for example those used in the `filter` transform, are not supposed to mutate the event. Previously
the mutations would be silently ignored after a condition ran. Now the compiler has support for read-only values, and
will give a compile-time error if you try to mutate the event in a condition.

Example filter transform config

```toml
[transforms.filter]
type = "filter"
inputs = [ "input" ]
condition.type = "vrl"
condition.source = """
.foo = "bar"
true
"""
```

New error

```text
error[E315]: mutation of read-only value
  ┌─ :1:1
  │
1 │ .foo = "bar"
  │ ^^^^^^ mutation of read-only value
  │
  = see language documentation at https://vrl.dev
```

#### `syslog` source and VRL's `parse_syslog` structured data fields made consistent {#parse-syslog}

Previously, the `parse_syslog` VRL function and the `syslog` source handled parsing the structured
data section of syslog messages differently:

- The `syslog` source inserted a field with the name of the structured data element, with the
  fields as keys in that map. It would create further nested maps if the structured data key names
  had `.`s in them.
- The `parse_syslog` function would instead prefix the structured data keys with the name of the
  structured data element they appeared in, but would insert this as a flat key/value structure
  rather than nesting (so that referencing keys would require quoting to escape the `.`s).

With this release the behavior of both is now to parse the structured data section as a flat map
of string key / string value, and insert it into the target under a field with the name of the
structured data element.

That is:

```text
<1>1 2022-04-25T23:21:45.715740Z Gregorys-MacBook-Pro.local 2d4d9490-794a-4e60-814c-5597bd5b7b7d 79978 - [exampleSDID@32473 foo.baz="bar"] test message
```

Now returns (for both the `syslog` source and the `parse_syslog` function):

```json
{
  "appname": "2d4d9490-794a-4e60-814c-5597bd5b7b7d",
  "exampleSDID@32473": {
    "foo.baz": "bar"
  },
  "facility": "kern",
  "hostname": "Gregorys-MacBook-Pro.local",
  "message": "test message",
  "procid": 79978,
  "severity": "alert",
  "timestamp": "2022-04-25T23:21:45.715740Z",
  "version": 1
}
```

Where previously VRL's `parse_syslog` function returned:

```json
{
  "appname": "2d4d9490-794a-4e60-814c-5597bd5b7b7d",
  "exampleSDID@32473.foo.baz": "bar",
  "facility": "kern",
  "hostname": "Gregorys-MacBook-Pro.local",
  "message": "test message",
  "procid": 79978,
  "severity": "alert",
  "timestamp": "2022-04-25T23:21:45.715740Z",
  "version": 1
}
```

And the `syslog` source returned:

```json
{
  "appname": "2d4d9490-794a-4e60-814c-5597bd5b7b7d",
  "exampleSDID@32473": {
    "foo": {
      "baz": "bar"
    }
  },
  "facility": "kern",
  "hostname": "Gregorys-MacBook-Pro.local",
  "message": "test message",
  "procid": 79978,
  "severity": "alert",
  "timestamp": "2022-04-25T23:21:45.715740Z",
  "version": 1
}
```


The previous `parse_syslog` behavior can be acheived by running the result through the `flatten`
function like:

```coffeescript
flatten(parse_syslog!(s'<1>1 2022-04-25T23:21:45.715740Z Gregorys-MacBook-Pro.local 2d4d9490-794a-4e60-814c-5597bd5b7b7d 79978 - [exampleSDID@32473 foo.baz="bar"] test message'))
```
