---
date: "2023-08-30"
title: "YAML default configuration format"
description: "YAML is now the default configuration format"
authors: ["pront"]
pr_numbers: [18325, 18345, 18378, 18388, 18420]
release: "0.33.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: announcement
---

## What is changing?

We are thrilled to announce that [YAML](https://yaml.org/) is now the default Vector configuration format.

YAML is unambiguous, offers great readability due to its clean syntax and is a widely adopted configuration language. In addition, many tools support YAML out of the box.

Existing TOML and JSON configurations are not affected by this decision and will work as usual.

## Action Needed

If you are relying on Vector auto-loading `/etc/vector/vector.toml`, this behavior will change in the next release. The `/etc/vector/vector.yaml` will become the new default path. You can keep using the same config by providing the following option `--config /etc/vector/vector.toml` explicitly. Alternatively, you can convert your existing configuration to YAML and write it to the new default path.

## New Tools

For those users interested in switching to YAML, the next Vector release will provide the following new tools:

* We implemented a new command, `vector convert-config`, which can be used as a starting point to convert one or more configurations from TOML/JSON to YAML. Note that this command is best-effort and comes with the following caveats:
  * It will not preserve comments.
  * It might skip explicitly writing values if they are equal to the default config values.
  * Please review the converted config and edit accordingly.
* The existing `vector generate` command now can generate YAML configurations.
