---
date: "2023-11-07"
title: "0.34 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.34.0"
authors: ["dsmith3197"]
release: "0.34.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.34.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [Removal of Deprecated Datadog Component Config Options](#datadog-deprecated-config-options)
1. [Removal of Deprecated `component_name` Metric Tag](#deprecated-component-name)
1. [Blackhole sink no longer reports by default](#blackhole-sink-reporting)
1. [Removal of `peer_addr` Metric Tag](#remove-peer-addr)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking changes

#### Removal of Deprecated Datadog Component Config Options {#datadog-deprecated-config-options}

The `region` config option has been removed from the Datadog Events, Logs,
and Metrics sinks. Instead the `site` option should be used.

The `region` and `application_key` config options have
been removed from the Enterprise configuration. Instead of `region`, `site` should be used. `application_key` is no longer required.

#### Removal of Deprecated `component_name` Metric Tag {#deprecated-component-name}

The deprecated `component_name` tag has been removed from all internal metrics. Instead the `component_id` tag should be used.

#### Blackhole sink no longer reports by default {#blackhole-sink-reporting}

The `blackhole` sink no longer reports events processed every second by default. Instead this
behavior can be opted into by setting `print_interval_secs` to `1` (or any other integer). This
change was made due to users being surprised that this sink generates output by default.

#### Removal of `peer_addr` Metric Tag {#remove-peer-addr}

The `peer_addr` tag has been removed from the `component_received_bytes_total` internal metric for TCP-based sources due to its unbounded cardinality.
