---
date: "2023-12-19"
title: "0.35 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.35.0"
authors: ["dsmith3197"]
release: "0.35.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.35.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [The Throttle transform's `events_discarded_total` internal metric is now opt-in](#events-discarded-total-opt-in)
1. [The `file` internal metric tag is now opt-in for file-based components](#file-tag-opt-in)
1. [Datadog sinks now default the API key and Site to the value of environment variables](#datadog-env-vars)
1. [Removal of `requests_completed_total`, `request_duration_seconds`, and `requests_received_total` Internal Metrics](#remove-obsolete-http-metrics)

and **deprecations**:

1. [Deprecation of undefined environment variable warnings](#strict-env-vars)

and **potentially impactful changes**:

1. [HTTP server-based sources now include a `keepalive.max_connection_age_secs` config option that defaults to 5 minutes](#http-keepalive-max-connection-age)
1. [Update `component_sent_bytes_total` to correctly report uncompressed bytes for all sinks](#component-sent-bytes-total)
1. [Update `component_received_bytes_total` to correctly report decompressed bytes for all sources](#component-received-bytes-total)
1. [Update default values for the `request.retry_max_duration_secs` and `request.rate_limit_num` sink configuration options](#request-config-options)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking Changes

#### The Throttle transform's `events_discarded_total` internal metric is now opt-in {#events-discarded-total-opt-in}

The Throttle transform's `events_discarded_total` internal metric, which includes the `key` tag, is now only emitted on
an opt-in basis. Users can opt-in to emit this metric by setting `internal_metrics.emit_events_discarded_per_key` to `true`
in the corresponding Throttle transform component config. This change is motivated by the fact that the `key` metric tag has
potentially unbounded cardinality.

To view events discarded without the `key` tag, use the `component_discarded_events_total` internal metric.

#### The `file` internal metric tag is now opt-in for file-based components {#file-tag-opt-in}

File-based components (file source, Kubernetes logs source, file sink) now include a
`internal_metrics.include_file_tag` config option that determines whether the `file` tag is included on the
component's corresponding internal metrics. This config option defaults to `false`, as this `tag` is likely to
be of high cardinality.

#### Removal of `requests_completed_total`, `request_duration_seconds`, and `requests_received_total` Internal Metrics {#remove-obsolete-http-metrics}

The `requests_completed_total`, `request_duration_seconds`, and `requests_received_total` internal metrics were removed in the 0.35.0 release.

| Removed metric              | Replacement metric                  | Affected components                                                                      |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| requests_completed_total    | http_client_responses_total         | apache metrics, aws ecs metrics, http client, prometheus remote write, prometheus scrape |
| request_duration_seconds    | http_client_response_rtt_seconds    | apache metrics, aws ecs metrics, http client, prometheus remote write, prometheus scrape |
| requests_received_total     | http_server_requests_received_total | aws kinesis firehose, heroku logplex, prometheus exporter, splunk hec                    |

### Deprecations

#### Deprecation of undefined environment variable warnings {#strict-env-vars}

Vector has the ability to [interpolate environment variables into its
configuration](/docs/reference/configuration/#environment-variables) as a means of templating
configuration. Currently, if an environment variable is undefined, unless the `?` interpolation
syntax is used, Vector outputs a warning and replaces the environment variable with an empty string.
In a future release , this will change from a warning to a hard error. This behavior can be opted
into earlier by using the `--strict-env-vars` flag (or `VECTOR_STRICT_ENV_VARS` environment
variable) when running Vector.

The reasoning for this change is that users often miss the undefined variable warning and are
confused by Vector not behaving as the expected. In particular, this happens when using `$1` in
regex capture groups in VRL without realizing they need to be escaped as `$$1` to avoid
interpolation.

### Potentially impactful changes

#### HTTP server-based sources now include a `keepalive.max_connection_age_secs` config option that defaults to 5 minutes {#http-keepalive-max-connection-age}

HTTP server-based sources include a new `keepalive.max_connection_age_secs` configuration option, which defaults to 5 minutes (300 seconds).
When enabled, this closes incoming TCP connections that reach the maximum age by sending a `Connection: close` header in the response.
While this parameter is crucial for managing the lifespan of persistent, incoming connections to Vector and for effective load balancing, it
can be disabled by setting `keepalive.max_connection_age_secs` to a very large number like
`100000000` (ideally you could set it to `null`, but Vector currently requires all values to be valid
TOML values, of which `null` is not).

#### Update `component_sent_bytes_total` to correctly report uncompressed bytes for all sinks {#component-sent-bytes-total}

The AppSignal, Datadog Metrics, GreptimeDB, GCP Cloud Monitoring, Honeycomb, and HTTP sinks now correctly
report uncompressed bytes, rather than compressed bytes, for the `component_sent_bytes_total` internal metric.

#### Update `component_received_bytes_total` to correctly report decompressed bytes for all sources {#component-received-bytes-total}

The Heroku Logs, HTTP Server, Prometheus Remote Write, and Splunk HEC sources now correctly report decompressed bytes,
rather than compressed bytes, for the `component_received_bytes_total` internal metric.

#### Update default values for the `request.retry_max_duration_secs` and `request.rate_limit_num` sink configuration options {#request-config-options}

The `request.retry_max_duration_secs` config option previously defaulted to `3600` seconds. It now defaults to `30` seconds.

Also, a bug was fixed that prevented component-level default values from being applied. In particular, this updates the default value
for `request.rate_limit_num` for the following sinks:

| Sink                           | Default `request.rate_limit_num` Value | Previous Limit |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------|
| AWS Cloudwatch Metrics Sink    | 150                                    | No limit       |
| Azure Blob Storage Sink        | 250                                    | No limit       |
| GCP Chronicle Unstructured Sink| 1000                                   | No limit       |
| GCP Cloud Storage Sink         | 1000                                   | No limit       |
| GCP Cloud Monitoring Sink      | 1000                                   | No limit       |

Note that all changes described above are reflected in the component reference documentation.

### [Datadog sinks now default the API key and Site to the value of environment variables](#datadog-env-vars) {#datadog-env-vars}

The Datadog Logs, Metrics, and Traces sinks now default the values of the [`default_api_key`][default_api_key] and [`site`][site]
configuration options to the values of environment variables `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_SITE`, respectively.


[default_api_key]: https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/sinks/datadog_logs/#default_api_key
[site]: https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/sinks/datadog_logs/#site
