---
date: "2023-03-26"
title: "0.37 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.37.0"
authors: ["jszwedko"]
release: "0.37.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.37.0 release includes **breaking changes**:

1. [Vector defaults to requiring non-optional environment variables](#strict-env-vars)
1. [The `dnstap` source now requires the `mode` parameter](#dnstap-mode)

and **potentially impactful changes**:

1. [`geoip` enrichment tables no longer fallback to the `GeoIP-City` type](#geoip)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking Changes

#### Vector defaults to requiring non-optional environment variables {#strict-env-vars}

Vector has the ability to [interpolate environment variables into its
configuration](/docs/reference/configuration/#environment-variables) as a means of templating
configuration. Now, if an environment variable is undefined, unless the `-` interpolation syntax is
used to provide a default, Vector will output an error and stop. This behavior can be opted out of
by setting the `--strict-env-vars` flag (or `VECTOR_STRICT_ENV_VARS` environment variable) to
`false` when running Vector; however, this behavior is deprecated and this flag to opt out will be
removed in a future release. If you want to have Vector start-up even if an environment variable is
undefined you can provide a default like `${FOO-bar}` to default `FOO` to `bar` if it is unset.

The reasoning for this change is that users often miss the undefined variable warning and are
confused by Vector not behaving as the expected. In particular, this happens when using `$1` in
regex capture groups in VRL without realizing they need to be escaped as `$$1` to avoid
interpolation.

#### The `dnstap` source now requires the `mode` parameter {#dnstap-mode}

The `dnstap` source now requires the `mode` parameter with the addition of support for reading
events over a TCP socket. Set this to `unix` to continue reading from the Unix socket configured as
`socket_path`.

### Potentially impactful changes

#### `geoip` enrichment tables no longer fallback to the `GeoIP-City` type {#geoip}

With the addition of the new `mmdb` enrichment table type, the existing `geoip2` enrichment table
type no longer falls back assuming the database is a `GeoIP-City` database when the type is unknown.
We don't expect this to affect anyone, but the fix is to ensure that the MMDB database type is
correctly set to `GeoIP2-City` if the database is a GeoIP2-City database.

For custom MMDBs, that are not GeoIP2 databases, the new `mmdb` enrichment table can be used instead
to read the MMDB records exactly as they are.
