---
date: "2024-05-06"
title: "0.38 Upgrade Guide"
description: "An upgrade guide that addresses breaking changes in 0.38.0"
authors: ["jszwedko"]
release: "0.38.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: breaking change
---

Vector's 0.38.0 release includes a **breaking change**:

1. [Vector now requires mandatory environment variables](#strict-env-vars)

and **deprecations**:

1. [Deprecation of the path coalescing operator](#path-coalescing)
1. [Deprecation of `enterprise` configuration](#enterprise-configuration)

We cover them below to help you upgrade quickly:

## Upgrade guide

### Breaking Change

#### Vector now requires mandatory environment variables {#strict-env-vars}

Vector has the ability to [interpolate environment variables into its
configuration](/docs/reference/configuration/#environment-variables) as a means of templating
configuration. Now, if an environment variable is undefined, and no default is set, Vector will
output an error and stop. To set a default, use the `-` interpolation syntax.

If you want to have Vector start-up even if an environment variable is undefined you can provide
a default like `${FOO-bar}` to default `FOO` to `bar` if it is unset.

The reason for this change is that users often miss the undefined variable warning and are confused
by Vector not behaving as the expected. Certain characters need to be escaped in regex capture
groups to avoid interpolation. For example, instead of using `$1`, you need to add an escape as
`$$1`.

### Deprecations

#### Path coalescing is deprecated {#path-coalescing}

Coalescing of field lookup paths (e.g. `.(field1|field2)`) are deprecated and will be removed in
a future version. This feature did not seem to be used much and significantly complicates parts
of the codebase.

If you were using this feature, you can accomplish the same through conditionals in VRL like:

```vrl
field = if exists(.field1) {
  .field1
} else if exists(.field2) {
  .field2
}
```

#### Deprecation of `enterprise` configuration {#enterprise-configuration}

The `enterprise` global configuration option that was used to integrate Vector with the Datadog
Observability Pipelines product has been deprecated and will be removed in a future Vector version.
Please reach out to Datadog support if you are impacted by this.
