# RFC 2445 - 2020-04-23 - Log Schema Facilities & Standards

A proposal to establish facilities and standards for managing log event schemas.

## Preface

Before we begin, I want to clarify that the goal is this RFC is not to
establish yet another log schema. That is a precarious exercise that usually
doesn't end well. Instead, the goal is to establish facilities and standards
that help Vector users adopt the log schema of their choice. This takes the
pressure off of establishing the perfect schema. Additionally, A core principle
of Vector is to be unopinionated and "meet users where they are". This is
fundamental to helping users migrate to better standards over time, one of
Vector's prime use cases.

## Motivation

It's becoming clear to me that we need better facilities and standards around
Vector's internal log schema. The amount of effort and discussion around our
log schema is growing to the point where it would benefit from standardization
(#2272, #2273, #2147, #2269, #2270, #2271, #1150, #2480). And like other
features in Vector, this one has grown organically over time:

1. Vector initially offered very simple `*_key` options in the relevant
   components and still does. Ex: the `file` source's `file_key` option.
2. We then ran into problems trying to coordinate keys when mapping them
   at the sink level. For example, Vector's `timestamp` key is mapped to
   `date` in the `datadog_logs` sink.
3. This issue was further exacerbated by the `splunk_hec` sink, which offers
   a [`source` and `source_type` field][splunk_source_fields] that describes
   where the data came from (ex: `source` = `TCP:0.0.0.0:4000`).
4. To solve for this we [introduced a new global `log_schema.*`][pr_1769] set
   of options that contained only 3 keys: `log_schema.message_key`,
   `log_schema.timestamp_key`, `log_schema.host_key`.

In addition to the above, other issues have popped up that would be solved with
the proper log schema:

1. Internal metadata ([#2415])
2. Adopting existing schemas (]#2423])

## Proposal

1. Move all component level keys to the global `log_schema` set of options.
2. Remove all component level `*_key` options in favor of the new `log_schema.*`
   options.
3. Define a namespace for metadata, such as `log_schema.meta_key`. This is
   intended for internal Vector metadata that does not describe the log
   directly.
4. If the field does not directly describe the log, or it's origine, then it
   should go under the new `log_schema.meta_key`.
5. Setting any of these fields to `""` disables the field.
6. Offer a "legacy" setting that sets all of the fields below to their current
   values. This will ensure that users upgrading do not have to change their
   field names.

Some rules to go by:

1. The _option_ names should be _specific_, we should avoid abstractions where
   possible. Options names != attribute names. For example, instead of
   `log_schema.cloud.instance_id_key` it should be
   `log_schema.aws_ec2.instance_id_key`. If the user want's to generalize all of
   this in a `"cloud"` namespace they can simply set the value of
   `log_schema.aws_ec2_key` to `"cloud"`.
2. We should favor namespacing this data since it'll help to avoid breaking
   changes as this matures. For example, instead of `socket` we should have
   a `socket.address` key.
3. We should try to avoid bikeshedding event names as much as possible. The
   options should correlate 1 to 1 with every field we touch in Vector. We can
   default the names to whatever we want.

## Prior Art

1. [Elastic Common Schema][ecs]
2. [Timber Schema][timber_schema]
3. [OpenTelemtry log data model proposal][ot_log_data_model]

## Sales Pitch

1. The Vector log schema controls will be discoverable and editable in one
   place.
2. It creates an explicit contract across Vector.
3. It increases Vector's adoption rate. The ability to easily adopt an existing
   log schema is critical to acquiring larger users with legacy systems. Log
   schemas are arguably the biggest source of lock-in when coming from other
   tools.
4. We can be flexible and adopt new standards as they emerge. For example,
   OpenTelemetry is [working on a schema standard][ot_log_data_model] that I
   would like Vector to _optionally_ adopt when ready.

## Drawbacks

1. It's more complicated.
2. I'm unsure if this will affect performance negatively. Adding more fields
   usually means we're paying a cost.

## Rationale & Alternatives

1. Do nothing and let user rename fields on their own via `rename_fields`, etc.
2. Adopt the [ECS][ecs] schema directly and not bother adding options to
   customize it. This is exactly how Logstash currently works.
3. Add fine-grained options within every component, allowing users to change
   fields on a component level. For example, a user can change `host_key` in
   the `socket` source and also change it in the `datadog_logs` sink to ensure
   both components are operating on the same field.

## Outstanding Questions

None right now.

## Plan of Attack

### `log_schema` options

- Preset
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.preset` option, this is used to preset all of these values (ex: "v1" and "ecs").
- Root
  - Keep the `log_schema.host_key` option (default `host`).
  - Keep the `log_schema.message_key` option (default `message`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.stream_key` option (default `stream`).
  - Keep the `log_schema.timestamp_key` option (default `timestamp`).
- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers_key` option (default `containers`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers.created_at_key` option (default `created_at`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers.id_key` option (default `id`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers.name_key` option (default `name`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers.image_key` option (default `image`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.containers.labels_key` option (default `labels`).
- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.file_key` option (default `file`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.file.path_key` option (default `path`).
- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog_key` option (default `syslog`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog.app_name_key` option (default `app_name`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog.facility_key` option (default `facility`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog.msgid_key` option (default `msgid`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog.procid_key` option (default `procid`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.syslog.severity_key` option (default `serverity`).
- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta_key` option (default `meta`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` option (default `source_type`) (ex: `file`, `kafka`, `socket`)
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.http_key` option (default `http`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.http.address_key` option (default `address`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.kafka_key` option (default `kafka`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.kafka.partition_key` option (default `partition`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.kafka.topic_key` option (default `topic`).
  - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.socket_key` option (default `socket`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.socket.address_key` option (default `address`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.socket.path_key` option (default `path`).
    - [ ] Add a new `log_schema.meta.socket.protocol_key` option (default `protocol`).

### Encoding options

- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.encoding.only_fields` option that takes an array.
- [ ] Add a new `log_schema.encoding.except_fields` option, default it to `[log_schema.meta_key]`.

### Components

- [ ] For all of the changes below.
  - [ ] Do _not_ override the log field if it already exists.
  - [ ] For any non-leaf keys, if the value is set to `""` then it should insert all descendant keys at the root of the log record.
  - [ ] For any leaf keys, if the value is set to `""` then it should skip inserting the value. This effectively disables the key.

#### Sources

- [ ] `docker` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `docker`.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers.created_at_key` option to the previous `contrainer_created_at` field.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers.id_key` option to the previous `container_id` field.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers.name_key` option to the previous `container_name` field.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers.image_key` option to the previous `image` field.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.containers.labels_key` option to contains image labels.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.stream_key` option to value of the `stream` key that Docker sets.
- [ ] `file` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `file`.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.file_key` option
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.file.path_key` option
  - [ ] Remove the local `file_key` option.
- [ ] `generator` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `generator`.
- [ ] `http` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `http`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` to the configured `address`.
  - [ ] Set the`log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to `http`.
- [ ] `journald` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `journald`.
- [ ] `kafka` source (#1150)
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `kafka`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.kafka_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.kafka.partition_key` option to the `partition` that they log came from.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.kafka.topic_key` option to the `topic` that the log came from.
- [ ] `logplex` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `logplex`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` option to the configured `address`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to `http`.
- [ ] `socket` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `socket`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` option to the configured `address` (tcp and udp only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.path_key` to the configured `path` (unix only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to the configured `mode`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.host_key` to the upstream host (this might already be done).
  - [ ] Stop setting the `peer_addr` and `peer_path` options in favor of the above options.
- [ ] `splunk_hec` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `splunk_hec`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` option to the configured `address` (tcp and udp only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to `http`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.host_key` to the upstream host (this might already be done).
  - [ ] Stop setting the `peer_addr` and `peer_path` options in favor of the above options.
- [ ] `stdin` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `stdin`.
- [ ] `syslog` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `syslog`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` option to the configured `address` (tcp and udp only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.path_key` to the configured `path` (unix only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to the configured `mode`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.host_key` to the upstream host (this might already be done).
- [ ] `vector` source
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.meta.source_type_key` to `vector`.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket_key` option.
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.address_key` option to the configured `address` (tcp and udp only).
  - [ ] Set the `log_schema.socket.protocol_key` to `tcp`.

#### Sinks

- [ ] Map the proper fields in the `splunk_hec` sink (#2268)

### Migration

- [ ] Add a new `"v1"` preset for the `log_schema.preset` option. This would default all of the option the current field names.
- [ ] Add a migration guide explaining how to keep the curren field names (`"v1"`) or migrate to the new ones.

[#2415]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/issues/2415
[#2423]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/issues/2423
[ecs]: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html
[ot_log_data_model]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/15Ii8rFJUcw-PQouU_Jo7DX8aT7blCpnKay1KWXV87Qo/edit#heading=h.is26c4mmcx82
[pr_1769]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/pull/1769
[splunk_source_fields]: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.0.3/Knowledge/Usedefaultfields#source
[timber_schema]: https://github.com/timberio/schemas
