# RFC 7496 - 2023-02-02 - VRL Return Keyword

Add return expression to the Vector Remap Language.

## Context

- #7496

## Cross cutting concerns

- None.

## Scope

### In scope

- Adding a return expression to VRL.
- The `return` can optionally take an expression as an argument and the result of that expression will be returned.

### Out of scope

- Adding new keywords for similar purposes such as `drop`.
- Defining semantics of keywords that are usually used for other purposes in other languages such as `break`.
- Implementation of `return` expressions inside closures.

## Pain

- Aborting with changing the input cannot be easily done.
- VRL code is often unnecessarily indented because of lack of early returns.

## Proposal

### User Experience

- A `return` expression causes the VRL program to terminate, keeping any modifications made to the event.
- A `return` expression must be always followed by another expression, whose value will be used as the emitted event.
- The keyword cannot be used inside a closure. Trying to do that will result in a compilation error.

### Implementation

- Implementation will be similar to the current `abort` keyword when `drop_on_abort` is set to `false`. The only difference is that the returned value will be taken from the provided expression and not from original input.
- `drop_on_abort` will have no effect on return calls and configuration such as `drop_on_return` will not be added.

## Rationale

- It will be possible to write VRL with less indentation making it more readable.
- `return` is already a reserved word so it can be used without introducing a breaking change.

## Drawbacks

- The `return` keyword will be given a semantic meaning that will have to be supported going forward.

## Prior Art

- Most languages have a way to make early returns.
- There was no prior attempted implementation of returns in VRL to my knowledge.

## Alternatives

- New keywords that are not currently a reserved keyword can be added to the language. This would, however, constitute a breaking change.
- This feature can also be rejected as it does not add any functionality that cannot be currently expressed.

## Outstanding Questions

## Plan Of Attack

Incremental steps to execute this change. These will be converted to issues after the RFC is approved:

- [ ] Submit a PR with implementation of returns.

## Future Improvements

- Adding a `drop` keyword for explicit drop as an alternative to pre-configured `abort` for full control over passing the events to output unchanged, passing them changed, or routing them to the dropped output.
- Adding `return` to closures.
