---
last_modified_on: "2020-03-31"
title: Glossary
description: "Vector documentation glossary of terms"
---

The gloassary contains common terms and their definitions.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/meta/glossary.md.erb
-->

## Batch

"Batch" refers to a [batched payload][docs.data-model.log] within a sink. It is a batch of events encoded into a payload that the downstream service understands.

## Benchmark

"Benchmark" refers to a test designed to measure performance and resource usage. You can learn more about Vector's benchmarks in the [Benchmarks][pages.index#performance] section.

## Binary

"Binary" refers to the static binary that Vector compiles to.

## Buffer

"Buffer" refers to an ordered queue of events that is coupled with a sink.

## Configuration

"Configuration" refers to the settings and options used to control Vector's behavior. You can learn more about Vector's configuration in the [Configuration][docs.configuration] section.

## Durability

"Durability" refers to the ability to retain data across exceptional events. In the context of Vector, this typically refers to the ability to retain data across restarts.

## Event

"Event" refers to a single unit of data that flows through Vector. You can learn more about events in the [Data Model][docs.data_model] section.

## Filter

"Filter" refers to a type of [transform][docs.transforms] that filters events or fields on an event.

## Flush

"flush" refers to the act of sending a batched payload to a downstream service. It is a common term used in conjunction with "buffer".

## Github

"[Github](https://github.com/)"" refers to the service used to host Vector's source code.

## Guide

"Guide" is a tutorial or walk through on a specific subject. You can see Vector's guides in the [Guides][guides.index] section.

## Log

"Log" refers to an individual log event. This is a type of
[Vector event][docs.data-model.metric].

## Lucio

A sporty Italian that bleeds Rust, is a core member of the Vector team, and does not approve of New York pizza.

## Metric

"Metric" refers to an individual data unit used to represent a point in time
measurement. This is a type of [Vector event][docs.data-model.metric].

## Parser

"Parser" refers to a [transform][docs.transforms] that parses event data.

## Pipeline

"Pipeline" refers to the end result from combining [sources][docs.sources],
[transforms][docs.transforms], and [sinks][docs.sinks].

## Reducer

"Reducer" refers to a [transform][docs.transforms] that reduces data into
a metric.

## Repo

"Repo" refers to a Git respository, usually the
[Vector Git repository][urls.vector_repo].

## Router

"Router" refers is something that accepts and routes data to many destinations,
this is commonly used to describe Vector.

## Rust

"Rust" refers to the [Rust programming language][urls.rust] that Vector is
written in.

## Sampler

"Sampler" refers to a [transform][docs.transforms] that samples data.

## Sink

"Sink" refers to the Vector [sink concept][docs.sinks].

## Source

"Source" refers to the Vector [source concept][docs.sources].

## Strategy

"Strategy" refers to a [deployment strategy][docs.strategies] that Vector is
deployed under.

## Structured Log

"Structured log" refers to a log represented in a structured form, such as
a map. This is different from a text log which is represented as a single
text string.

## Table

"Table" refers to the [TOML table type][urls.toml_table].

## TOML

"TOML" refers to [Tom's Obvious Markup Language][urls.toml] and it is the syntax
used to represent the Vector configuration.

## Topology

"Topology" refers to a [deploy topology][docs.topologies] that Vector is
deployed under.

## Transform

"Transform" refers to the Vector [transform concept][docs.transforms].

## Use Case

"Use case" refers to a way in which Vector is used, such logs, metrics,
reducing cost, etc.

## Vector

"Vector" is the name of this project.


[docs.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.data-model.log]: /docs/about/data-model/log/
[docs.data-model.metric]: /docs/about/data-model/metric/
[docs.data_model]: /docs/about/data-model/
[docs.sinks]: /docs/reference/sinks/
[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/sources/
[docs.strategies]: /docs/setup/deployment/strategies/
[docs.topologies]: /docs/setup/deployment/topologies/
[docs.transforms]: /docs/reference/transforms/
[guides.index]: /guides
[pages.index#performance]: /#performance
[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.toml]: https://github.com/toml-lang/toml
[urls.toml_table]: https://github.com/toml-lang/toml#table
[urls.vector_repo]: https://github.com/timberio/vector
