---
title: Use Vector On Docker
sidebar_label: Docker
description: Using Vector on Docker
source_url: https://github.com/timberio/vector/tree/master/distribution/docker

---

Vector maintains the [`timberio/vector` Docker images][urls.docker_hub_vector]
available on [Docker Hub][urls.docker_hub_vector] which come pre-installed
with Vector and any recommended system dependencies. These images are available
for x86_64, ARM64, and ARMv7
architectures.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/setup/installation/platforms/docker.md.erb
-->

## Running

```bash
docker run timberio/vector:0.8.2-alpine
```

* The `vector` binary is located at `/usr/local/bin/vector`, which should be in your `$PATH`.
* The default [configuration file][docs.configuration] is located at `/etc/vector/vector.toml`.

## Configuring

The Vector Docker images ship with a [default `/etc/vector/vector.toml` configuration file][urls.default_configuration].
To use your own configuration file:

1. Create your own [Vector configuration file][docs.configuration] and save it
   as `vector.toml`.

2. Run the Vector Docker image with the following command:

   ```bash
   docker run \
    -v $PWD/vector.toml:/etc/vector/vector.toml:ro \
    timberio/vector:0.8.2-alpine
   ```

   Modify `$PWD` to the directory where you store your local `vector.toml` file.

## Deploying

How you deploy Vector is largely dependent on your use case and environment.
Please see the [deployment section][docs.deployment] for more info on how to
deploy Vector.

## Updating

Simply run with newer version in the tag:

```bash
docker pull timberio/vector:X.X.X-alpine && \
  docker run timberio/vector:X.X.X-alpine
```

See the [variants](#variants) and [versions](#versions) sections to choose
the appropriate image for your use case.

## Images

### Variants

#### alpine

This image is based on the [`alpine` Docker image][urls.docker_alpine], which is
a Linux distribution built around musl libc and BusyBox. It is considerably
smaller in size than other Docker images and statically links libraries. This
is the image we recommend due to it's small size and reliability.

```bash
docker run timberio/vector:0.8.2-alpine
```

#### debian

This image is based on the [`debian-slim` image][urls.docker_debian],
which is a smaller, more compact variant of the [`debian` image][urls.docker_debian].

```bash
docker run timberio/vector:0.8.2-debian
```

### Architectures

Vector's images are multi-arch and support the
x86_64, ARM64, and ARMv7 architectures.

### Versions

Vector's Docker images can be downloaded with the following tags. Note that
Vector maintains special tags that are automatically updated whenever Vector is
[released][urls.vector_releases]:

| Version          | URL                                                      |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|
| Latest major     | `timberio/vector:latest-alpine`               |
| Latest minor     | `timberio/vector:<MAJOR>.X-alpine`            |
| Latest patch     | `timberio/vector:<MAJOR.MINOR>.X-alpine`      |
| Specific version | `timberio/vector:<MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH>-alpine`  |
| Latest nightly   | `timberio/vector:nightly-alpine`              |
| Specific nightly | `timberio/vector:nightly-<YYYY-MM-DD>-alpine` |

### Source Files

Vector's Docker source files are located
[in it's Github repo][urls.vector_docker_source_files].


[docs.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.deployment]: /docs/setup/deployment/
[urls.default_configuration]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/blob/master/config/vector.toml
[urls.docker_alpine]: https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine
[urls.docker_debian]: https://hub.docker.com/_/debian
[urls.docker_hub_vector]: https://hub.docker.com/r/timberio/vector
[urls.vector_docker_source_files]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/tree/master/distribution/docker
[urls.vector_releases]: https://vector.dev/releases/latest
