---
title: Install Vector via Nix
sidebar_label: Nix
description: Install Vector through the Nix package manager
---

Vector can be installed through the [Nix package manager][urls.nix] via
[Vector's Nix package][urls.vector_nix_package]. This package manager is
generally used on [NixOS][urls.nixos].

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

<Alert type="warning">

Because Vector must be manually updated on Nix, new Vector releases will be
delayed. Generally new Vector releases are made available within a few days.

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/setup/installation/package-managers/nix.md.erb
-->

## Install

1.  Install Vector
    
    ```bash
    nix-env --file https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/archive/master.tar.gz --install --attr vector
    ```

    <Alert icon={false} type="info">

    * The `--file` flag ensures that you're installing the latest stable version
      of Vector (0.7.2).
    * The `--attr` improves installation speed.

    </Alert>

2.  Start Vector

    ```bash
    vector --config /path/to/vector.toml
    ```

    <Alert icon={false} type="info">

    * `vector` is placed in your `$PATH`.
    * You must create a [Vector configuration file][docs.configuration] to
      successfully start Vector.

    </Alert>

### Previous Versions

To our knowledge, historical or specific versions of nix packages cannot be
installed. See [nixpkgs issue #9682][urls.nixpkgs_9682].

## Configuring

The [Vector nix package] does not install any configuration files by default.
You'll need to create a [Vector configuration file][docs.configuration] and pass
it to Vector via the `--config` flag when
[starting][docs.process-management#starting] Vector.

## Administering

The Vector nix package does not use Systemd by default, but Vector does provide
a [Systemd service file][urls.vector_systemd_file] that you can use as a
starting point. How you manage the Vector process is up to you, and the
process administration section covers how to do this:

import Jump from '@site/src/components/Jump';

<Jump to="/docs/administration/">Administration</Jump>

## Uninstalling

```bash
nix-env --uninstall vector
```

## Updating

```bash
nix-env --file https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/archive/master.tar.gz --upgrade vector
```


[docs.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.process-management#starting]: /docs/administration/process-management/#starting
[urls.nix]: https://nixos.org/nix/
[urls.nixos]: https://nixos.org/
[urls.nixpkgs_9682]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/9682
[urls.vector_nix_package]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/tools/misc/vector/default.nix
[urls.vector_systemd_file]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/blob/master/distribution/systemd/vector.service
