---
id: "setup/sources/stdin/sematext_logs"
title: "Send STDIN logs to Sematext"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, send STDIN logs to Sematext."
platform_name: 
sink_name: "sematext_logs"
source_name: "stdin"
tags: ["category: setup","source: stdin","sink: sematext_logs"]
---

import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

> "I just wanna, like, send my STDIN logs to Sematext -- why is all of this so complicated?"
>
> — developers

So you want to send STDIN logs to Sematext? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/setup/sources/stdin/sematext_logs.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish In This Guide

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>
    Accept new line delimited log data through STDIN.
    <ol>
      <li>Automatically enrich logs with host-level context.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Send logs to the Sematext monitoring service.
    <ol>
      <li>Batch data to maximize throughput.</li>
      <li>Automatically retry failed requests, with backoff.</li>
      <li>Buffer your data in-memory or on-disk for performance and durability.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## How We'll Do It

To send STDIN logs to Sematext _properly_, and accomplish all of the items above,
we'll use [Vector][urls.vector_website] and deploy it as a
sidecar.

### First, We'll Use Vector

<SVG src="/img/components.svg" width="80%" className="margin-vert--lg" />

Written in [Rust][urls.rust], [Vector][urls.vector_website] is a lightweight
and ultra-fast tool for building observability pipelines. Compared to Logstash
and friends, Vector [improves throughput by ~10X while significanly reducing
CPU and memory usage][urls.vector_performance] and it's the perfect tool for
this task.

### Second, We'll Deploy Vector As A Sidecar

_sidecar.md.erb

## A Simple Step-By-Step Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">

<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

<InstallationCommand />

</li>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"stdin"}
  sinkName={"sematext_logs"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start Vector

```bash
vector --config vector.toml
```

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>

</div>


[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.vector_performance]: https://vector.dev/#performance
[urls.vector_website]: https://vector.dev
