---
last_modified_on: "2020-04-01"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: Hello World. Your First Vector Pipeline.
description: Building your very first Vector pipeline, the "Hello World" of Vector tutorials.
series_position: 1
author_github: https://github.com/Jeffail
tags: ["type: tutorial", "domain: config"]
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';
import CodeExplanation from '@site/src/components/CodeExplanation';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import Steps from '@site/src/components/Steps';

Vector is a simple beast to tame, in this guide we'll send an
[event][docs.data-model] through it and touch on some basic concepts.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/getting-started/your-first-pipeline.md.erb
-->

## Tutorial

<Steps headingDepth={3}>
<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

If you haven't already, install Vector. Here's a script for the lazy:

<InstallationCommand />

Or [choose your preferred installation method][docs.installation].

</li>
<li>

### Configure it

Vector runs with a [configuration file][docs.configuration] that tells it which
[components][pages.components] to run and how they should interact. Let's create
one that simply pipes a [`stdin` source][docs.sources.stdin] to a
[`console` sink][docs.sinks.console]:

```toml title="vector.toml"
[sources.foo]
  type = "stdin"

[sinks.bar]
  inputs = ["foo"]
  type = "console"
  encoding.codec = "text"
```

<CodeExplanation>

* The [`stdin` source][docs.sources.stdin] tells Vector to receive data over `STDIN`.
* The [`console` source]docs.sinks.stdout] tells Vector to simply print the data to `STDOUT`.
* The  `encoding.codec` tells Vector to print the data as plain text (unencoded).

</CodeExplanation>

Every component within a Vector config has an identifier chosen by you. This
allows you to specify where a sink should gather its data from (using the
`inputs` field).

</li>
<li>

### Hello World!

That's it for our first config, now pipe an event through it:

```bash
echo 'Hello World!' | vector --config ./vector.toml
```

<CodeExplanation>

* The `echo` statement sends a single log to Vector over `STDIN`
* The `vector...` command starts Vector with our previously created config file.

</CodeExplanation>

Your input event will get echoed back (along with some service logs) unchanged:

```text
... some logs ...
Hello World!
```

That's because the raw input text of our source was captured internally within
the field `message`, and the `text` `encoding.codec` option of our sink prints
the raw contents of `message` only.

<Alert type="info">

Hey, kid, if you want to see something cool try setting `encoding.codec = "json"`
in the sink config.

</Alert>
</li>
</ol>
</Steps>

## Next Steps

If you expected something more interesting to happen then that's on you. The
text came out unchanged because we didn't ask Vector to change it, we can remedy
that by following the next guide in the series.


[docs.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.data-model]: /docs/about/data-model/
[docs.installation]: /docs/setup/installation/
[docs.sinks.console]: /docs/reference/sinks/console/
[docs.sources.stdin]: /docs/reference/sources/stdin/
[pages.components]: /components/
