---
last_modified_on: "2020-03-28"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: "Send logs from a TCP, UDP, or UDS socket to Loki"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, send logs from a TCP, UDP, or UDS socket to Loki."
author_github: https://github.com/binarylogic
cover_label: "Socket to Loki Integration"
tags: ["type: tutorial","domain: sources","domain: sinks","source: socket","sink: loki"]
---

import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

So you want to send logs from a TCP, UDP, or UDS socket to Loki? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/integrate/sources/socket/loki.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>
    Accept log data over a TCP, UDP, or UDS socket.
    <ol>
      <li>Automatically enrich logs with host-level context.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Send structured logs to the Loki logging service.
    <ol>
      <li>Batch data to maximize throughput.</li>
      <li>Set custom labels to be added to all log data.</li>
      <li>Automatically retry failed requests, with backoff.</li>
      <li>Buffer your data in-memory or on-disk for performance and durability.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## How It Works

The [service deployment strategy][docs.strategies.service] treats Vector like a
separate service. It is desigend to receive data from an upstream source and
fan-out to one or more destinations. Typically, upstream sources are other
Vector instances sending data via the [`vector` sink][docs.sinks.vector], but
can be collected through any of Vector's [sources][docs.sources]. The following
diagram demonstrates how it works.

<SVG src="/img/deployment-strategies-docker-service.svg" />

## Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">
<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

<InstallationCommand />

</li>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"socket"}
  sinkName={"loki"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start Vector

```bash
vector --config vector.toml
```

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>
</div>


[docs.sinks.vector]: /docs/reference/sinks/vector/
[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/sources/
[docs.strategies.service]: /docs/setup/deployment/strategies/service/
