website/content/en/guides/getting-started/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started with Vector
description: Getting Started with Vector, the "Hello World" of Vector tutorials.
tags: ["getting-started", "guides", "guide"]
---

Welcome to Vector!

Vector is a high-performance observability data pipeline that allows you to collect, transform,
and route all your logs and metrics.

In this getting started guide, we'll walk you through using Vector for the first time. We'll install Vector
and create our first observability data pipeline so you can begin to see what Vector can do.

## Install Vector

Installing Vector is quick and easy. We can use this handy installation script:

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.vector.dev | bash
```

Or you can [choose your preferred installation method][docs.installation].

Once we have Vector installed, let's check to make sure that it's working correctly:

```shell
vector --version
```

## Configure Vector

Vector topologies are defined with a [configuration file][docs.setup.configuration] that tells it what
[components][pages.components] to run and how they should interact. Vector topologies are made up of three
types of components:

* [**Sources**][docs.sources] collect or receive data from observability data sources into Vector
* [**Transforms**][docs.transforms] can manipulate or change that observability data inside Vector
* [**Sinks**][docs.sinks] send data onwards from Vector to external services or destinations

Let's create a configuration file:

```toml title="vector.toml"
[sources.in]
  type = "stdin"

[sinks.out]
  inputs = ["in"]
  type = "console"
  encoding.codec = "text"
```

Each component has a unique ID and is prefixed with the type of component, for example, `sources` for a
source. Our first component, `sources.in`, uses the [`stdin` source][docs.sources.stdin] which tells Vector to receive
data over stdin and has the ID `in`.

Our second component, `sinks.out`, uses the [`console` source][docs.sinks.console] which tells Vector to simply print
the data to stdout. The `encoding.codec` option tells Vector to print the data as plain text (unencoded).

The `inputs` option in our `sinks.out` component tells Vector where this sink's events are
coming from. In our case, events are received from our other component, the source with ID `in`.

## Hello World!

That's it for our first config. Now let's pipe an event through it:

```bash
echo 'Hello World!' | vector --config ./vector.toml
```

The `echo` statement sends a single log to Vector via stdin. The `vector...` command starts Vector with our
previously created config file.

The event we've just sent will be received by our `sources.in` component, then sent onto the `sinks.out` component,
which will, in turn, echo it back to the console:

```text
... some logs ...
Hello World!
```

> If you want to see something cool, try setting `encoding.codec = "json"` in the sink config.

## Hello World Mark II

The echoing of events isn't very exciting. Let's see what we can do with some real observability data.
Let's take a classic problem, collecting and processing Syslog events, and see how Vector handles it.

To do this, we're going to add two new components to our configuration file. Let's look at our updated
configuration now:

```toml title="vector.toml"
[sources.generate_syslog]
  type = "generator"
  format = "syslog"
  count = 100

[transforms.remap_syslog]
  inputs = [ "generate_syslog"]
  type = "remap"
  source = '''
    structured = parse_syslog!(.message)
    . = merge(., structured)
  '''

[sinks.emit_syslog]
  inputs = ["remap_syslog"]
  type = "console"
  encoding.codec = "json"
```

The first component uses the [`generator` source][docs.sources.generator]. The `generator` source creates sample
log data that can allow you to simulate different types of events in various formats.

> But, but you said "real" observability data? We choose generated data because it's hard for us to know what
> platform you're trying Vector on. That means it's also hard to document a single way for everyone to get
> data into Vector.

The second component is a transform called [`remap`][docs.transforms.remap]. The `remap` transform is at the heart
of what makes Vector so powerful for processing observability data. The transform exposes
a simple language called [Vector Remap Language][docs.vrl] that allows you to parse, manipulate, and
decorate your event data as it passes through Vector. Using `remap`, you can turn static events into informational
data that can help you ask and answer questions about your environment's state.

You can see we've added the `sources.generated_syslog` component. The `format` option tells the generator what
type of logs to emit, here `syslog`, and the `count` option tells the generator how many lines to emit, here 100.

In our second component, `transforms.remap_syslog`, we've specified an `inputs` option of `generate_syslog`, which
means it will receive events from our `generate_syslog` source. We've also specified the type of transform: `remap`.

Inside the `source` option of the `remap_syslog` component is where we start to see Vector's power.
The `source` contains the list of remapping transformations to apply to each event Vector receives. We're only
performing one operation: [`parse_syslog`][docs.vrl.parse_syslog]. We're passing this function a single field called
`message`, which contains the Syslog event we're generating. This all-in-one function takes a Syslog-formatted
message, parses its contents, and emits it as a structured event. Wait, I can hear you saying? What have you
done with my many lines of Syslog parsing regular expressions? Remap removes the need for this and allows you
to focus on the event's value, not on how to extract that value.

> We support parsing a variety of logging formats. Of course, if you have an event format that we don't support,
> you can also specify your own custom regular expression using `remap` too! The `!` after the `parse_syslog` function
> tells Vector to emit an error if the message fails to parse, meaning you'll know if some non-standard Syslog is
> received, and you can adjust your remapping to accommodate it!

Lastly, we've changed the ID of our sink component to `emit_syslog`, updated the `inputs` option to process events
generated by the `remap_syslog` transform, and specified that we want to emit events in JSON-format.

Let's rerun Vector. This time we don't need to echo any data to it; just run in on the command line. It'll process
100 lines of generated Syslog data, emit the processed data as JSON, and exit:

```shell
vector --config ./vector.toml
```

Now you should have a series of JSON-formatted events, something like this:

```json
{"appname":"benefritz","facility":"authpriv","hostname":"some.de","message":"We're gonna need a bigger boat","msgid":"ID191","procid":9473,"severity":"crit","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
{"appname":"meln1ks","facility":"local1","hostname":"for.com","message":"Take a breath, let it go, walk away","msgid":"ID451","procid":484,"severity":"debug","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
{"appname":"shaneIxD","facility":"uucp","hostname":"random.com","message":"A bug was encountered but not in Vector, which doesn't have bugs","msgid":"ID428","procid":3093,"severity":"alert","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
```

We can see that Vector has parsed the Syslog message and created a structured event containing all of the Syslog
fields. All with one line of Vector's remap language. This example is just the beginning of Vector's capabilities.
You can receive logs and events from dozens of sources. You can use Vector and remap to change data, add fields
to decorate data, convert logs into metrics, drop fields, and dozens of other tasks you use daily to process your
observability data. You can then route and output your events to dozens of destinations.

## What's next?

We're just scatching the surface in this post. To get your hands dirty with Vector
check out:

* All of Vector's [sources][docs.sources], [transforms][docs.transforms], and [sinks][docs.sinks].
* The [Vector Remap Language][docs.vrl], the heart of data processing in Vector.
* More details on [component configuration][docs.configuration] in Vector.
* Finally, [deploying Vector][docs.deployment] to launch Vector in your production environment.

[docs.deployment]: /docs/setup/deployment/
[docs.installation]: /docs/setup/installation/
[docs.setup.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.configuration]: /docs/reference/configuration/
[docs.sinks]: /docs/reference/configuration/sinks/
[docs.sinks.console]: /docs/reference/configuration/sinks/console/
[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/
[docs.sources.generator]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/generator/
[docs.sources.stdin]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/stdin/
[docs.transforms.remap]: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/remap/
[docs.transforms]: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/
[docs.vrl]: /docs/reference/vrl/
[docs.vrl.parse_syslog]: /docs/reference/vrl/functions/#parse_syslog
[pages.components]: /components/

Commit message:

chore(generator source): Rename generator source to demo source
Following the discussion in #8249 we believe that `demo` is a more
accurate name for this source and that it should not be used for
benchmarking due to the noise added by having Vector generate its own
load. We also feel that making the source suitable for benchmarking
would make it less suitable for demos.

I aliased the source to preserve compatibility. I'll note it in the
release notes when I prepare them for v0.18.0, but not as a breaking
change.

Closes: #8249

Signed-off-by: Jesse Szwedko <jesse@szwedko.me>

website/content/en/guides/getting-started/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started with Vector
description: Getting Started with Vector, the "Hello World" of Vector tutorials.
tags: ["getting-started", "guides", "guide"]
---

Welcome to Vector!

Vector is a high-performance observability data pipeline that allows you to collect, transform,
and route all your logs and metrics.

In this getting started guide, we'll walk you through using Vector for the first time. We'll install Vector
and create our first observability data pipeline so you can begin to see what Vector can do.

## Install Vector

Installing Vector is quick and easy. We can use this handy installation script:

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.vector.dev | bash
```

Or you can [choose your preferred installation method][docs.installation].

Once we have Vector installed, let's check to make sure that it's working correctly:

```shell
vector --version
```

## Configure Vector

Vector topologies are defined with a [configuration file][docs.setup.configuration] that tells it what
[components][pages.components] to run and how they should interact. Vector topologies are made up of three
types of components:

* [**Sources**][docs.sources] collect or receive data from observability data sources into Vector
* [**Transforms**][docs.transforms] can manipulate or change that observability data inside Vector
* [**Sinks**][docs.sinks] send data onwards from Vector to external services or destinations

Let's create a configuration file:

```toml title="vector.toml"
[sources.in]
  type = "stdin"

[sinks.out]
  inputs = ["in"]
  type = "console"
  encoding.codec = "text"
```

Each component has a unique ID and is prefixed with the type of component, for example, `sources` for a
source. Our first component, `sources.in`, uses the [`stdin` source][docs.sources.stdin] which tells Vector to receive
data over stdin and has the ID `in`.

Our second component, `sinks.out`, uses the [`console` source][docs.sinks.console] which tells Vector to simply print
the data to stdout. The `encoding.codec` option tells Vector to print the data as plain text (unencoded).

The `inputs` option in our `sinks.out` component tells Vector where this sink's events are
coming from. In our case, events are received from our other component, the source with ID `in`.

## Hello World!

That's it for our first config. Now let's pipe an event through it:

```bash
echo 'Hello World!' | vector --config ./vector.toml
```

The `echo` statement sends a single log to Vector via stdin. The `vector...` command starts Vector with our
previously created config file.

The event we've just sent will be received by our `sources.in` component, then sent onto the `sinks.out` component,
which will, in turn, echo it back to the console:

```text
... some logs ...
Hello World!
```

> If you want to see something cool, try setting `encoding.codec = "json"` in the sink config.

## Hello World Mark II

The echoing of events isn't very exciting. Let's see what we can do with some real observability data.
Let's take a classic problem, collecting and processing Syslog events, and see how Vector handles it.

To do this, we're going to add two new components to our configuration file. Let's look at our updated
configuration now:

```toml title="vector.toml"
[sources.generate_syslog]
  type = "demo"
  format = "syslog"
  count = 100

[transforms.remap_syslog]
  inputs = [ "generate_syslog"]
  type = "remap"
  source = '''
    structured = parse_syslog!(.message)
    . = merge(., structured)
  '''

[sinks.emit_syslog]
  inputs = ["remap_syslog"]
  type = "console"
  encoding.codec = "json"
```

The first component uses the [`demo` source][docs.sources.demo]. The `demo` source creates sample
log data that can allow you to simulate different types of events in various formats.

> But, but you said "real" observability data? We choose generated data because it's hard for us to know what
> platform you're trying Vector on. That means it's also hard to document a single way for everyone to get
> data into Vector.

The second component is a transform called [`remap`][docs.transforms.remap]. The `remap` transform is at the heart
of what makes Vector so powerful for processing observability data. The transform exposes
a simple language called [Vector Remap Language][docs.vrl] that allows you to parse, manipulate, and
decorate your event data as it passes through Vector. Using `remap`, you can turn static events into informational
data that can help you ask and answer questions about your environment's state.

You can see we've added the `sources.generated_syslog` component. The `format` option tells the demo what
type of logs to emit, here `syslog`, and the `count` option tells the demo how many lines to emit, here 100.

In our second component, `transforms.remap_syslog`, we've specified an `inputs` option of `generate_syslog`, which
means it will receive events from our `generate_syslog` source. We've also specified the type of transform: `remap`.

Inside the `source` option of the `remap_syslog` component is where we start to see Vector's power.
The `source` contains the list of remapping transformations to apply to each event Vector receives. We're only
performing one operation: [`parse_syslog`][docs.vrl.parse_syslog]. We're passing this function a single field called
`message`, which contains the Syslog event we're generating. This all-in-one function takes a Syslog-formatted
message, parses its contents, and emits it as a structured event. Wait, I can hear you saying? What have you
done with my many lines of Syslog parsing regular expressions? Remap removes the need for this and allows you
to focus on the event's value, not on how to extract that value.

> We support parsing a variety of logging formats. Of course, if you have an event format that we don't support,
> you can also specify your own custom regular expression using `remap` too! The `!` after the `parse_syslog` function
> tells Vector to emit an error if the message fails to parse, meaning you'll know if some non-standard Syslog is
> received, and you can adjust your remapping to accommodate it!

Lastly, we've changed the ID of our sink component to `emit_syslog`, updated the `inputs` option to process events
generated by the `remap_syslog` transform, and specified that we want to emit events in JSON-format.

Let's rerun Vector. This time we don't need to echo any data to it; just run in on the command line. It'll process
100 lines of generated Syslog data, emit the processed data as JSON, and exit:

```shell
vector --config ./vector.toml
```

Now you should have a series of JSON-formatted events, something like this:

```json
{"appname":"benefritz","facility":"authpriv","hostname":"some.de","message":"We're gonna need a bigger boat","msgid":"ID191","procid":9473,"severity":"crit","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
{"appname":"meln1ks","facility":"local1","hostname":"for.com","message":"Take a breath, let it go, walk away","msgid":"ID451","procid":484,"severity":"debug","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
{"appname":"shaneIxD","facility":"uucp","hostname":"random.com","message":"A bug was encountered but not in Vector, which doesn't have bugs","msgid":"ID428","procid":3093,"severity":"alert","timestamp":"2021-01-20T19:38:55.329Z"}
```

We can see that Vector has parsed the Syslog message and created a structured event containing all of the Syslog
fields. All with one line of Vector's remap language. This example is just the beginning of Vector's capabilities.
You can receive logs and events from dozens of sources. You can use Vector and remap to change data, add fields
to decorate data, convert logs into metrics, drop fields, and dozens of other tasks you use daily to process your
observability data. You can then route and output your events to dozens of destinations.

## What's next?

We're just scatching the surface in this post. To get your hands dirty with Vector
check out:

* All of Vector's [sources][docs.sources], [transforms][docs.transforms], and [sinks][docs.sinks].
* The [Vector Remap Language][docs.vrl], the heart of data processing in Vector.
* More details on [component configuration][docs.configuration] in Vector.
* Finally, [deploying Vector][docs.deployment] to launch Vector in your production environment.

[docs.deployment]: /docs/setup/deployment/
[docs.installation]: /docs/setup/installation/
[docs.setup.configuration]: /docs/setup/configuration/
[docs.configuration]: /docs/reference/configuration/
[docs.sinks]: /docs/reference/configuration/sinks/
[docs.sinks.console]: /docs/reference/configuration/sinks/console/
[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/
[docs.sources.demo]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/demo/
[docs.sources.stdin]: /docs/reference/configuration/sources/stdin/
[docs.transforms.remap]: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/remap/
[docs.transforms]: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/
[docs.vrl]: /docs/reference/vrl/
[docs.vrl.parse_syslog]: /docs/reference/vrl/functions/#parse_syslog
[pages.components]: /components/
