---
id: "setup/sources/prometheus/aws_cloudwatch_metrics"
title: "Send Prometheus metrics to AWS Cloudwatch"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, send Prometheus metrics to AWS Cloudwatch."
platform_name: 
sink_name: "aws_cloudwatch_metrics"
source_name: "prometheus"
tags: ["category: setup","source: prometheus","sink: aws_cloudwatch_metrics"]
---

import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

> "I just wanna, like, send my Prometheus metrics to AWS Cloudwatch -- why is all of this so complicated?"
>
> — developers

So you want to send Prometheus metrics to AWS Cloudwatch? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/setup/sources/prometheus/aws_cloudwatch_metrics.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish In This Guide

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>
    Scrape one or more Prometheus endpoints.
    <ol>
      <li>Ingest all Prometheus metric types.</li>
      <li>Automatically parse metrics into a lossless interoperable data model.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Send metrics to AWS Cloudwatch.
    <ol>
      <li>Batch data to maximize throughput.</li>
      <li>Automatically retry failed requests, with backoff.</li>
      <li>Automatically aggregate metrics at the edge for improved performance.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## How We'll Do It

To send Prometheus metrics to AWS Cloudwatch _properly_, and accomplish all of the items above,
we'll use [Vector][urls.vector_website] and deploy it as a
daemon.

### First, We'll Use Vector

<SVG src="/img/components.svg" width="80%" className="margin-vert--lg" />

Written in [Rust][urls.rust], [Vector][urls.vector_website] is a lightweight
and ultra-fast tool for building observability pipelines. Compared to Logstash
and friends, Vector [improves throughput by ~10X while significanly reducing
CPU and memory usage][urls.vector_performance] and it's the perfect tool for
this task.

### Second, We'll Deploy Vector As A Daemon

<SVG src="/img/deployment-strategies-docker-daemon.svg" />

As shown in the diagram above, the daemon deployment strategy is designed for
data collection on a single host. Vector is deplyed in it's own container,
collecting and forwarding all data on the host.

## A Simple Step-By-Step Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">

<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

<InstallationCommand />

</li>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"prometheus"}
  sinkName={"aws_cloudwatch_metrics"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start Vector

```bash
vector --config vector.toml
```

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>

</div>


[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.vector_performance]: https://vector.dev/#performance
[urls.vector_website]: https://vector.dev
