---
last_modified_on: "2020-03-28"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: "Send logs from Docker to a file"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, send logs from Docker to a file."
author_github: https://github.com/binarylogic
cover_label: "Docker to File Integration"
tags: ["type: tutorial","domain: platforms","domain: sinks","platform: docker","sink: file"]
---

import CodeExplanation from '@site/src/components/CodeExplanation';
import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

So you want to send logs from Docker to a file? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/integrate/platforms/docker/file.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>
    Collect Docker container logs.
    <ol>
      <li>Filter which containers you collect them from.</li>
      <li>Automatically merge logs that Docker splits.</li>
      <li>Enrich your logs with useful Docker context.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Write logs to files.
    <ol>
      <li>Dynamically partition logs across multiple files.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## How It Works

The [daemon deployment strategy][docs.strategies.daemon] is designed for data
collection on a single host. Vector runs in the background, in its own
container, collecting _all_ data for that host. Typically, data is collected
directly from the Docker API via Vector's [`docker` source][docs.sources.docker],
but can be collected through any of Vector's
[sources][docs.sources]. The following diagram demonstrates how it works.

<SVG src="/img/deployment-strategies-docker-daemon.svg" />

## Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">
<ol>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"docker"}
  sinkName={"file"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start the Vector container

```bash
docker run \
  -v $PWD/vector.toml:/etc/vector/vector.toml:ro \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  timberio/vector:latest-alpine
```

<CodeExplanation>

* The `-v $PWD/vector.to...` flag passes your custom configuration to Vector.
   * The `-v /var/run/docke...` flag ensures that Vector has access to the Docker API.
   * The `timberio/vector:latest-alpine` is the default image we've chosen, you are welcome to use [other image variants][docs.platforms.docker#variants].

</CodeExplanation>

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>
</div>


[docs.platforms.docker#variants]: /docs/setup/installation/platforms/docker/#variants
[docs.sources.docker]: /docs/reference/sources/docker/
[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/sources/
[docs.strategies.daemon]: /docs/setup/deployment/strategies/daemon/
