---
last_modified_on: "2020-07-23"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: Hello, WASM world
description: Write your first WASM plugin for Vector
author_github: https://github.com/hoverbear
tags: ["type: guide", "domain: transforms", "transform: wasm"]
---

import Assumptions from '@site/src/components/Assumptions';

<Assumptions name="guide">

* You understand the [basic Vector concepts][docs.about.concepts] and understand [how to set up a pipeline][guides.getting-started.your-first-pipeline].
* You have a configured development environment according to our [`CONTRIBUTING.md`][TODO] file.

</Assumptions>

Vector supports a robust, language agnostic WebAssembly runtime with WASI support. While support
matures, we encourage you to try out the transform and consider how it might fit into your pipelines.

First, let's talk a bit about them! Just want to dig in? [**Fastpath to Hacking!**][#Understanding-the-Current-Limitations]

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/advanced/wasm-hello.md.erb
-->

## Why does Vector need plugins?

* Avro/protobuf
* DSLs and user scripts
* Lua is popular and this offers more of that.
* Modularity vs monolithic-ness

## What's a WASM

* WASM is a stack machine, explanation.
* WASM is a compile target.
* Some nice starter links.
* We're big fans of the folks working on [Fastly][urls.fastly]'s WASM projects! (Shoutout to social contract)

## Why are Vector Plugins WASM based?

* Portability (cross arch)
* Portability (language target)
* Portability (cross OS)
* Security (Sandboxing)
* Security (Auditability)
* Performance (Low overhead)

## Cook your development environment & Vector builds

* Build Vector with WASM from the env.
* Demonstrate how to build, test, and bench the WASM modules Vector ships with.

## Hack on a Plugin

* Write your own plugin.
* Deploy it alongside Vector.
* Use it with Vector.

## Understanding the Current Limitations

* Timers
* Streaming
* Multi-input/output

[docs.about.concepts]: /docs/about/concepts/
[guides.getting-started.your-first-pipeline]: /guides/getting-started/your-first-pipeline/
[urls.fastly]: https://www.fastly.com/
