---
id: "setup/sources/journald/gcp_cloud_storage"
title: "Send Journald logs to GCP Cloud Storage (GCS)"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, send Journald logs to GCP Cloud Storage (GCS)."
platform_name: 
sink_name: "gcp_cloud_storage"
source_name: "journald"
tags: ["category: setup","source: journald","sink: gcp_cloud_storage"]
---

import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

> "I just wanna, like, send my Journald logs to GCP Cloud Storage (GCS) -- why is all of this so complicated?"
>
> — developers

So you want to send Journald logs to GCP Cloud Storage (GCS)? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/setup/sources/journald/gcp_cloud_storage.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish In This Guide

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>
    Collect Journald/Systemd logs.
    <ol>
      <li>Filter which Systemd units you collect them from.</li>
      <li>Checkpoint your position to ensure data is not lost between restarts.</li>
      <li>Enrich your logs with useful Systemd context.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Send logs to GCP Cloud Storage.
    <ol>
      <li>Leverage any of GCP's IAM strategies.</li>
      <li>Confifgure object sizes to reduce request cost.</li>
      <li>Dynamically partition logs across different key prefixes.</li>
      <li>Optionally compress data to reduce storage cost.</li>
      <li>Control object-level ACL.</li>
      <li>Choose different storage classes for cost control.</li>
      <li>Automatically retry failed requests, with backoff.</li>
      <li>Buffer your data in-memory or on-disk for performance and durability.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## How We'll Do It

To send Journald logs to GCP Cloud Storage (GCS) _properly_, and accomplish all of the items above,
we'll use [Vector][urls.vector_website] and deploy it as a
daemon.

### First, We'll Use Vector

<SVG src="/img/components.svg" width="80%" className="margin-vert--lg" />

Written in [Rust][urls.rust], [Vector][urls.vector_website] is a lightweight
and ultra-fast tool for building observability pipelines. Compared to Logstash
and friends, Vector [improves throughput by ~10X while significanly reducing
CPU and memory usage][urls.vector_performance] and it's the perfect tool for
this task.

### Second, We'll Deploy Vector As A Daemon

<SVG src="/img/deployment-strategies-docker-daemon.svg" />

As shown in the diagram above, the daemon deployment strategy is designed for
data collection on a single host. Vector is deplyed in it's own container,
collecting and forwarding all data on the host.

## A Simple Step-By-Step Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">

<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

<InstallationCommand />

</li>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"journald"}
  sinkName={"gcp_cloud_storage"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start Vector

```bash
vector --config vector.toml
```

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>

</div>


[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.vector_performance]: https://vector.dev/#performance
[urls.vector_website]: https://vector.dev
