---
last_modified_on: "2020-03-31"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: "Send logs from Heroku Logplex to a Splunk HEC"
description: "A simple guide to send logs from Heroku Logplex to a Splunk HEC in just a few minutes."
author_github: https://github.com/binarylogic
cover_label: "Heroku Logplex to Splunk HEC Integration"
tags: ["type: tutorial","domain: sources","domain: sinks","source: logplex","sink: splunk_hec"]
hide_pagination: true
---

import ConfigExample from '@site/src/components/ConfigExample';
import InstallationCommand from '@site/src/components/InstallationCommand';
import ServiceDiagram from '@site/src/components/ServiceDiagram';

Logs are an _essential_ part of observing any
service; without them you are flying blind. But collecting and analyzing them
can be a real challenge -- especially at scale. Not only do you need to solve
the basic task of collecting your logs, but you must do it
in a reliable, performant, and robust manner. Nothing is more frustrating than
having your logs pipeline fall on it's face during an
outage, or even worse, disrupt more important services!

Fear not! In this guide we'll show you how to send send logs from [Heroku Logplex][urls.logplex] to [a Splunk HEC][urls.splunk_hec]
and build a logs pipeline that will be the backbone of
your observability strategy.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/integrate/sources/logplex/splunk_hec.md.erb
-->

## Background

### What is Heroku Logplex?

[Heroku’s Logplex][urls.logplex] router is responsible for collating and distributing the log entries generated by Heroku apps and other components of the Heroku platform. It makes these entries available through the Logplex public API and the Heroku command-line tool.

### What is Splunk HEC?

The [Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC)][urls.splunk_hec] is a fast and efficient way to send data to Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud. Notably, HEC enables you to send data over HTTP (or HTTPS) directly to Splunk Enterprise or Splunk Cloud from your application.

## Strategy

### How This Guide Works

We'll be using [Vector][urls.vector_website] to accomplish this task. Vector
is a [popular][urls.vector_stars], lightweight, and
[ultra-fast][urls.vector_performance] utility for building observability
pipelines. It's written in [Rust][urls.rust], making it memory safe and
reliable. We'll be deploying Vector as a
[service][docs.strategies#service].

The [service deployment strategy][docs.strategies#service] treats Vector like a
separate service. It is desigend to receive data from an upstream source and
fan-out to one or more destinations.
For this guide, Vector will receive data from
Heroku Logplex via Vector's
[`logplex` source][docs.sources.logplex].
The following diagram demonstrates how it works.

<ServiceDiagram
  platformName={null}
  sourceName={"logplex"}
  sinkName={"splunk_hec"} />

### What We'll Accomplish

To be clear, here's everything we'll accomplish in this short guide:

<ol className="list--checks list--flush">
  <li>
    Accept Heroku Logplex data over HTTP.
    <ol>
      <li>Automatically parse incoming data into structured events.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Send logs to a Splunk HTTP event collector.
    <ol>
      <li>Customize which fields should be added to the Splunk index.</li>
      <li>Batch data to maximize throughput.</li>
      <li>Automatically retry failed requests, with backoff.</li>
      <li>Buffer your data in-memory or on-disk for performance and durability.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink text--bold">All in just a few minutes!</li>
</ol>

## Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">
<ol>
<li>

### Install Vector

<InstallationCommand />

</li>
<li>

### Configure Vector

<ConfigExample
  format="toml"
  path="vector.toml"
  sourceName={"logplex"}
  sinkName={"splunk_hec"} />

</li>
<li>

### Start Vector

```bash
vector --config vector.toml
```

That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</li>
</ol>
</div>


[docs.sources.logplex]: /docs/reference/sources/logplex/
[docs.strategies#service]: /docs/setup/deployment/strategies/#service
[urls.logplex]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logplex
[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.splunk_hec]: http://dev.splunk.com/view/event-collector/SP-CAAAE6M
[urls.vector_performance]: https://vector.dev/#performance
[urls.vector_stars]: https://github.com/timberio/vector/stargazers
[urls.vector_website]: https://vector.dev
