---
id: "setup/sources/docker"
title: "Collect your Docker logs and send them anywhere"
description: "A guide to quickly, and correctly, collect your Docker logs and send them anywhere."
tags: ["category: setup","source: docker"]
---

> "I just wanna, like, collect my Docker logs and send them anywhere -- why is all of this so complicated?"
>
> — developers

So you want to collect your Docker logs and send them anywhere? Sounds simple! Sadly, it is not.
When you account for x, y, and z, you quickly realize this is no easy endaevor.
Especially for high volume product environments! Fear not! This guide will get
you up and running in minutes.

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';
import CodeExplanation from '@site/src/components/CodeExplanation';
import CodeHeader from '@site/src/components/CodeHeader';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/setup/sources/docker.md.erb
-->

## What We'll Accomplish In This Guide

<ol className="list--checks list--lg list--semi-bold list--primary list--flush">
  <li>Collect Docker container logs.</li>
  <li>Filter which containers you collect them from.</li>
  <li>Automatically merge logs that Docker splits.</li>
  <li>Enrich your logs with useful Docker context.</li>
  <li>Send your logs to one or more destinations</li>
  <li className="list--li--arrow list--li--pink">All in just a few minutes. Let's get started!</li>
</ol>

## Deployment Strategy

<SVG src="/img/tutorials/sources/docker.svg" />

---

For this guide we'll be using Vector, which is a lightweight and ultra-fast
utility for building observability pipelines. We'll deploy Vector as a dedicated
Logging container. This has a number of advantages:

1. **Same workflow** - Vector is deploy as a container like your other services.
1. **Dependency free** - You do not need to install anything on the host.
1. **Easy to scale** - Simply deploy more logging containers as necessary.
1. **Fast & reliable** - Built in [Rust][urls.rust], Vector is [blistering fast and memory efficient][urls.vector_performance].
1. **Flexible** - Vector includes a robust set of [transforms][docs.transforms] to process your data.


## A Simple Step-By-Step Tutorial

<div className="steps steps--h3">

1. ### Configure Vector


2. ### Start Vector as a container

   ```bash
   docker run ...
   ```

   <CodeExplanation>

   * The first `-v` flag ensures that Vector has access to the Docker socket.
     This is how Vector receives Docker logs.
   * The second `-v` flag passes the previously created Vector configuration
     file into the container.

   </CodeExplanation>

   That's it! Simple and to the point. Hit `ctrl+c` to exit.

</div>

## Next Steps

1. Explore Vector's transforms for ways to further process your data.
2. Explore Vector's [guides][guides.index] and [docs.index] to unlock the full
   potential of Vector.


[docs.transforms]: /docs/reference/transforms/
[guides.index]: /guides
[urls.rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org/
[urls.vector_performance]: https://vector.dev/#performance
