docs/specs/buffer.md, before:

# Buffer Specification

This document specifies Vector's buffer behavior for the development of Vector.

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”,
“SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119].

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" style="ordered" indent="   " -->

1. [Instrumentation](#instrumentation)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Instrumentation

Vector buffers MUST be instrumented for optimal observability and monitoring. This is required to drive various interfaces that Vector users depend on to manage Vector installations in mission critical production environments. This section extends the [Instrumentation Specification].

### Events

#### `BufferCreated`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferCreated` event upon creation. To avoid stale metrics, this event MUST be regularly emitted at an interval.

* Properties
  * `max_size_bytes` - the max size of the buffer in bytes if relevant
  * `max_size_events` - the max size of the buffer in number of events if relevant
* Metric
  * MUST emit the `buffer_max_event_size` gauge (in-memory buffers) if the defined `max_size_events` value is present
  * MUST emit the `buffer_max_byte_size` gauge (disk buffers) if the defined `max_size_bytes` value is present

#### `BufferEventsReceived`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsReceived` event after receiving one or more Vector events. *All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsReceived` event upon startup if there are existing events in the buffer.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of received events
  * `byte_size` - the byte size of received events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_received_events_total` counter by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_received_event_bytes_total` counter by the defined `byte_size`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_events` gauge by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_byte_size` gauge by the defined `byte_size`

#### `BufferEventsSent`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsSent` event after sending one or more Vector events.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of sent events
  * `byte_size` - the byte size of sent events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_sent_events_total` counter by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_sent_event_bytes_total` counter by the defined `byte_size`
  * MUST decrement the `buffer_events` gauge by the defined `count`
  * MUST decrement the `buffer_byte_size` gauge by the defined `byte_size`

#### `EventsDropped`

*All buffers* MUST emit an `EventsDropped` event after dropping one or more Vector events.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of dropped events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_discarded_events_total` counter by the defined `count`

[Instrumentation Specification]: instrumentation.md

Commit message:

Add scope section to explain global context
Signed-off-by: 001wwang <will.wang@datadoghq.com>

docs/specs/buffer.md, after:

# Buffer Specification

This document specifies Vector's buffer behavior for the development of Vector.

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”,
“SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119].

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" style="ordered" indent="   " -->

1. [Instrumentation](#instrumentation)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Scope

This specification addresses direct buffer development and does not cover aspects that buffers inherit "for free". For example, this specification does not cover global context, such as component_id, that all buffers receive in their telemetry by nature of being attached to a Vector component.

## Instrumentation

Vector buffers MUST be instrumented for optimal observability and monitoring. This is required to drive various interfaces that Vector users depend on to manage Vector installations in mission critical production environments. This section extends the [Instrumentation Specification].

### Events

#### `BufferCreated`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferCreated` event upon creation. To avoid stale metrics, this event MUST be regularly emitted at an interval.

* Properties
  * `max_size_bytes` - the max size of the buffer in bytes if relevant
  * `max_size_events` - the max size of the buffer in number of events if relevant
* Metric
  * MUST emit the `buffer_max_event_size` gauge (in-memory buffers) if the defined `max_size_events` value is present
  * MUST emit the `buffer_max_byte_size` gauge (disk buffers) if the defined `max_size_bytes` value is present

#### `BufferEventsReceived`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsReceived` event after receiving one or more Vector events. *All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsReceived` event upon startup if there are existing events in the buffer.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of received events
  * `byte_size` - the byte size of received events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_received_events_total` counter by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_received_event_bytes_total` counter by the defined `byte_size`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_events` gauge by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_byte_size` gauge by the defined `byte_size`

#### `BufferEventsSent`

*All buffers* MUST emit a `BufferEventsSent` event after sending one or more Vector events.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of sent events
  * `byte_size` - the byte size of sent events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_sent_events_total` counter by the defined `count`
  * MUST increment the `buffer_sent_event_bytes_total` counter by the defined `byte_size`
  * MUST decrement the `buffer_events` gauge by the defined `count`
  * MUST decrement the `buffer_byte_size` gauge by the defined `byte_size`

#### `EventsDropped`

*All buffers* MUST emit an `EventsDropped` event after dropping one or more Vector events.

* Properties
  * `count` - the number of dropped events
* Metric
  * MUST increment the `buffer_discarded_events_total` counter by the defined `count`

[Instrumentation Specification]: instrumentation.md
